1 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
 
Department of Defense  
Defense Health Agency 
Performance Work Statement 
 
Network Engineers and Specialists Support (NE&S) 
 
 
Network Modernization Branch (NMB) 
 
LAN Sustainment Section 
 
 
Version: 1.0 
Date: 07/09/2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 1 
1.0 GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
 
1.1  This is a non-personal services contract to provide the Defense Health Agency (DHA) 
Network Modernization Branch (NMB) as defined in the Performance Requirements Summary 
(PRS) (Part 7, Attachment 1) of this PWS with Enteprise and MTF local site information 
technology (IT) support, and touch labor and to transition all DHA sites listed in this PWS to a 
fully integrated site and enterprise IT support Integrator (EITSI) SUPPORT MODEL.  
 
1.2  Description of services/introduction:  The contractor shall provide all personnel, 
equipment, supplies, facilities, transportation, tools, materials, supervision, and other items and 
non-personal services necessary to perform local IT support, and touch labor and to transition all 
DHA sites to a fully integrated site and Enterprise IT Services (EITS) support model EITSI as 
defined in this Performance Work Statement (PWS) except for those items specified as 
government furnished property and services.  The contractor shall perform to the standards in 
this PWS. 
 
As required by the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 and 
as amended in the FY 2019 NDAA, Authority, Direction, and Control (ADC) of all DoD 
Military Medical Treatment Facilities (MTFs) and Other Lines of Business (OLBs) will 
transition to the Defense Health Agency (DHA). This transition will enable tighter integration of 
healthcare delivery systems to achieve medical readiness, improve health of people, enhance 
experience of care, and lower healthcare costs. 
 
As a result, the DHA established the Enterprise Information Technology Services (EITS) as a 
multi-provider, integrated environment for the delivery of IT services to the DHA and Military 
Health System (MHS). The mission of the EITS Program is to transform MHS IT through a 
services integration approach that standardizes service delivery, increases efficiency, and 
measures and improves quality. This new operating model will be implemented through the 
aggregation of IT delivery, management, and governance activities that allow for more efficient 
service delivery, timely decisions, and continuous improvement. The MHS EITS strategy 
includes three major components: EITS Integrator (EITSI), Capability Service Providers (CSPs), 
and Geographic Service Providers (GSPs). 
• EITSI contractor specializes in coordination, integration, and management activities and 
will replace certain existing Enterprise contracts, including the DHA Global Service 
Center (GSC). 
• GSPs are contractors that perform a wide variety of IT tasks and services for MTFs/OLBs 
spanning a defined geographic area. 
• Capability Service Providers (CSPs) are specialist contractors that perform a particular IT 
capability and provide it to the entire MHS Enterprise. 
 
 
This integrated environment will use a Multisourcing Services Integrator (MSI) approach to 
coordinate delivery across multiple IT contracts and service owners. This approach optimizes 
centralized control by assigning coordination, integration, and management activities to an 
3 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
integrator function that specializes in these capabilities. It enables the reduction of site-specific 
solutions and increases capabilities of centrally-managed IT services. 
  
The environment requires coordination, cooperation, communication, and integration amongst 
various participating entities. To accomplish this, the EITSI is the single contractor responsible 
for supporting and coordinating service delivery across the EITS environment. The EITSI has a 
distinct and separate role in coordinating with the other service providers. It will implement 
common business processes and tools for the delivery of IT services across the MHS. In 
addition, the EITSI will integrate with other contractors focused on their own service areas. 
Contractors with specialist focus in a particular enterprise service are referred to as CSPs and 
contractors performing IT support tasks at MTFs and OLBs spanning a defined geographical 
area are referred to as Geographic Service Providers (GSPs). The EITSI will also work with the 
existing incumbent contractors in the environment, even prior to their full integration. Specific 
scope of individual CSPs is still being defined by DHA.  Integrated Service Providers will each 
have obligations in their contracts to interface with enterprise tools and processes  
 
1.3  Background:  The DHA mission is to plan, program, acquire, implement and sustain 
peacetime information technology infrastructure, and to train personnel and provide support 
services for the Military Health System (MHS) centrally managed products to improve and 
maintain the health of the MHS beneficiaries. Military health care delivery is heavily dependent 
upon automated information systems (AISs) which rely on a robust network infrastructure to 
transport data within and between Medical Treatment Facilities (MTFs). Numerous medical and 
administrative systems use the network including: MHS GENESIS, Defense Medical Logistics 
Standard Support (DMLSS), Defense Blood Standard System (DBSS), Expense Assignment 
System (EAS) IV, as well as various office automation and electronic mail systems, suites, and 
clinical software add-ons. The protocols and technologies that are present on the MTF LANs and 
interconnecting WAN are described in Attachment 1 
 
1.4  Objectives:  .
 The objective of this tasking is for the contractor to provide network (i.e. 
local, wireless, and wide area network) sustainment and deployment support services to the MHS 
MTFs, which includes hospitals, clinics, and other remote elements throughout CONUS and 
OCONUS locations. The Contractor shall, in the performance of this task order, be successful at 
coordinating and working with other vendors and Government agencies in resolving problems, 
gathering information, and/or making recommendations to the Government 
 
1.5  Scope:  On behalf of the DHA, this awarded task order will provide network sustainment 
and deployment support services to the MHS MTFs both inside and outside the continental 
United States (CONUS and OCONUS). This work includes functions such as network 
performance measurement and monitoring, assistance with network design and development, 
network measurement, customer service in the form of trouble tracking and troubleshooting at 
the Tier 0 level, onsite support for both contractor and Government support teams for escalated 
trouble tickets, as well as maintenance and sparing support in concert with DHA Asset 
Management & Support Services (AMSS). Such services will be provided in accordance with 
stated MHS and specific Medical Component priorities. Services shall also comply with existing 
and evolving technical architecture guidance from international, commercial, Department of 
Defense (DoD), and Health Affairs (HA) sources. These services will be provided in a 
4 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
centralized and decentralized mode. The on-site network specialists will be the primary 24/7 on-
call decentralized points of contact within the MTFs for all network related support as required 
for normal operations of the MTF and related facilities. Additional support and guidance will be 
provided by regional (i.e. CONUS, Asia and Europe) network engineers and the DHA 
centralized infrastructure team. The Government reserves the right to change this distribution to 
support mission criticality. 
 
1.6  Period of Performance (PoP):  One (1) 6-Month Base Period, inclusive of Transition, Four 
(4) 12-Month Option Periods, and an Option to Extend Services for up to six months IAW FAR 
52.217-8 at the discretion of the Government.   
 
1.6.1  Transition:  Transition-in/transition-out period. 
 
1.6.1.1  Transition-in period:  Full performance start date is, 30 days (CONUS) or 45 days 
(OCONUS) from the first day of the period of performance.    During the transition-in period, the 
contractor shall prepare to meet all contract requirements and ensure incoming personnel are 
functionally trained and qualified on the full performance start date except cybersecurity 
requirements, which must be fully adhered during transition and full performance periods.  The 
remaining incoming personnel shall be trained and qualified within 30 days from the first day of 
the period of performance start date.   
 
In accordance with the solicitation, the Contractor shall provide a plan for 30 days incoming 
transition from contract to contract. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Government in 
planning and implementing a complete transition to the Contractor's support model. The 
Contractor shall collaborate with the Government to develop and deliver an Incoming Transition 
Plan, CDRL A002 Transtion-in, Transition-out). The Government will designate a transition 
period for the incoming Contractor to coordinate and work with the incumbent Contractor. This 
transition plan shall include, but is not limited to: 
  
• Coordination with Government representatives 
• Review, evaluation and transition of current support services 
• Transition of historic data to new Contractor system 
• Government-approved training and certification process 
• Transfer of hardware warranties and software licenses (if applicable) 
• Transfer of all necessary business and/or technical documentation 
• Transfer of compiled and un-compiled source code, to include all versions, maintenance 
updates and patches (if applicable) 
• Orientation phase and program to introduce Government personnel, programs, and users 
to the Contractor's team, tools, methodologies, and business processes 
• Distribution of Contractor purchased Government owned assets, including facilities, 
equipment, furniture, phone lines, computer equipment, etc. 
• GFE inventory management assistance 
 
Transfer and documentation of the receipt of Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) and 
Government Furnished Information (GFI) such as: 
  
5 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
• Hardware/software 
• Laptops/PCs 
• Pagers/cell phones/calling cards 
• Data/databases 
• Common Access Cards (CAC) 
• Procedural manuals/guidelines 
• Operating instructions 
• Historical data, e.g., memos, letters, correspondence, regulations, reports, documents and 
contract document library 
• Agreement documents, e.g., software licensing agreements 
 
The contractor shall comply with transition-in requirements of the DHA, as listed in paragraph 
1.11.1, for contractors needing to be issued Common Access Card (CAC) identification, 
including Department of Defense (DoD) and DHA-directed training and forms submission, prior 
to network access. 
 
1.6.1.2  Transition-out period:  The transition-out plan shall facilitate the accomplishment of a 
seamless transition from the incumbent to an incoming contractor/Government personnel at the 
expiration of the contract.  See Part 7, Technical Exhibit 1.   
 
This shall include formal coordination with Government staff and successor staff and 
management. It shall also include delivery of copies of existing policies and procedures, and 
delivery of required metrics and statistics. This transition plan shall include, but is not limited to: 
• Coordination with Government representatives 
• Review, evaluation and transition of current support services 
• Transition of historic data to new Contractor system 
• Government-approved training and certification process 
• Transfer of hardware warranties and software licenses (if applicable) 
• Transfer of all necessary business and/or technical documentation 
• Transfer of compiled and un-compiled source code, to include all versions, maintenance 
updates and patches (if applicable) 
• Orientation phase and program to introduce Government personnel, programs, and users 
to the Contractor's team, tools, methodologies, and business processes 
• Disposition of Contractor purchased Government owned assets, including 
facilitiesequipment, furniture, phone lines, computer equipment, etc. 
• Transfer and documentation of the delivery/return of Government Furnished Equipment 
(GFE) and Government Furnished Information (GFI), and GFE inventory management 
assistance 
• Applicable DHA debriefing and personnel out-processing procedures 
• Turn-in of all government keys, ID/access cards, and security codes 
 
The contractor will propose activities, schedules, quality control and risk mitigation steps and 
strategies to include expected outcomes as part of their Transition to integrated Site/Enterprise IT 
Support Model. 
 
6 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
The contractor shall comply with transition-out requirements of the DHA for contractors who 
have been issued a CAC or who generate “records”, as defined by DoD (records manual), 
including DoD-directed disposition of records, and others displayed on the In/Out (I/O) 
Processing Portal. 
 
1.7  Administrative specifications 
 
1.7.1  Place of performance:  The work shall be performed at Government facilities, as 
indicated in Attachment 7, unless otherwise stated or required by Government. .   
 
1.7.2  Recognized Federal holidays:  The contractor may be required to perform services on 
holidays.     
New Year’s Day    Labor Day 
Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday  Columbus Day 
President’s Day    Veteran’s Day 
Memorial Day     Thanksgiving Day 
Juneteenth Day    Christmas Day 
Independence Day     
 
1.7.3  Hours of operation:  The contractor is responsible for conducting business Monday 
through Friday except federal holidays or when the government facility is closed due to local or 
national emergencies, administrative closings, or similar government directed facility closings. 
The contractor must at all times maintain an adequate workforce for the uninterrupted 
performance of all tasks defined within this PWS when the government facility is not closed for 
the above reasons.  
 
Work hours shall continue at most recent order schedule. The contractor may be required to work 
outside the typical hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday excluding federal 
holidays to satisfy government requirements for a variety of situations, including emergencies or 
maintenance subject to system availability constraints. It is expected that to the maximum extent 
practicable, the contractor will offset/credit hours worked outside the normal duty time with less 
hours during normal duty time for that billing period, the Government expects credit hours to 
eliminate or minimize request for After Hours support. Periods of absence in excess of 8 
workdays in CONUS, or 12 workdays OCONUS cumulative within a single month per FTE, 
whether for leave or any reason, must be reported and coordinated with the COR. The monthly 
price will be reduced by the appropriate contract incremental FTE price for each FTE in the 
billing period that leave exceeds 8 workdays CONUS or 12 workdays OCONUS. Periods of 
leave 8 workdays or less CONUS / 12 workdays or less OCONUS will not require adjustment of 
the monthly price. 
 
1.7.4  Emergency Services: On occasion, services may be required to support an activation or 
exercise of contingency plans outside the normal duty hours. 
 
1.8  Contractor travel:  Contractor shall be authorized travel expenses consistent with the cost 
principles and procedures in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 31.2, Travel Costs and 
the limitations of funds specified in this contract.  All travel requires Government 
7 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
approval/authorization and notification to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR).  
 
Travel shall be approved per the terms and conditions of the task order. All receipts for airfare, 
rental car, lodging, and all receipts directly being charged for over $75.00 shall be submitted as 
support/back up documentation with the invoice submittal. NO PAYMENT WILL BE MADE 
WITHOUT DOCUMENTATION/RECEIPTS. NO PAYMENT WILL BE MADE for travel that 
is non-conforming to the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR).  
 
Travel shall be approved per the terms and conditions of the task order. All receipts for airfare, 
rental car, lodging, and all receipts directly being charged for over $75.00 shall be submitted as 
support/back up documentation with the invoice submittal. NO PAYMENT WILL BE MADE 
WITHOUT DOCUMENTATION/RECEIPTS. NO PAYMENT WILL BE MADE for travel that 
is non-conforming to the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR).   
 
All travel shall be scheduled at least two weeks in advance whenever possible to maximize 
savings to the Government through receiving the best travel rates available. Emergency 
requirements shall be defined and approved by the COR. All travel shall be in accordance with 
the FTR and shall be at or below per diem unless approved via CTP. The contractor is required 
to ensure good stewardship of travel funds and shall seek rates lower than per diem whenever 
possible.  
 
Contractor shall be authorized travel expenses consistent with the cost principles and procedures 
in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 31.2, Travel Costs and the limitations of funds 
specified in this contract. All travel requires Government approval/authorization and notification 
to the COR. Arrangements for and costs of all travel, transportation, meals, lodging, and 
incidentals are the responsibility of the Contractor. Travel costs shall be incurred and billed in 
accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR). Costs for these expenses will be reviewed, 
certified and approved by the COR. All travel and transportation shall utilize commercial sources 
and carriers. The Government will not pay for business class or first-class travel.  
 
Local Travel: The contractor may be required to travel within CONUS to participate in 
conferences, meetings or other events. Local travel within a 50-mile radius from the individuals' 
primary place of performance will not be reimbursed (e.g. subsistence, travel time, or other travel 
related expenses)  
 
Non-Local Travel: The contractor may be required to travel within CONUS to participate in 
conferences, meetings or other events. Travel greater than a 50-mile radius from the individuals' 
primary place of performance is considered non-local travel and will be reimbursed, in 
accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 31 subpart 31.205-46 Travel Costs, 
only when approved in advance by the Contracting Officer Representative (COR). All travel 
shall be scheduled at least two weeks in advance whenever possible to maximize savings to the 
Government through receiving the best travel rates available. The Contractor shall ensure that 
assigned participants allow sufficient lead-time to obtain valid passports, country clearances, and 
immunizations to support project activities. All travel outside of the U.S. required under this 
tasking shall be in accordance with the JTR. Emergency requirements shall be defined and 
approved by the COR.   
8 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
Travel must have been preapproved by the COR, and contractor travel must have occurred in 
order to be invoiced. All travel and transportation shall utilize commercial sources and carriers. 
The Government shall not pay for business class or first-class travel. The Government will not 
allow any burden rates applied to travel costs. No burdens or indirect rates may be charged to 
Travel CLINs. Only direct travel costs that the COR has preapproved, and that the COR finds 
allowable and allocable may be charged to the contract. No profit nor fee shall be added.  
 
Trip Reports CONUS: When requested, the Contractor shall submit a trip report within 5 
working days after completion of travel.   
 
When requested by the Government Task Lead, the contractor shall submit Trip Reports when 
submitting monthly invoices.   
 
The Trip Report shall include the following information (minimum requirement):  
• Personnel traveled   
• Dates of travel   
• Destination(s)   
• Purpose of Trip; contract effort supported and Task Order ID number; Government 
Agency supported (if applicable), explain the benefits of the travel to the Government.   
• Actual Trip Costs/Receipts  
• Approval Authority   
• Summary of events 
 
1.9  Other Direct Costs (ODC):  Actual ODC purchases must have been preapproved by the 
COR and contractor purchases of COR approved ODC expenses must have occurred in order to 
be invoiced. All excess funding not used will be deobligated from the ODC CLIN. The 
Government will not allow any burden or indirect costs may be applied to ODC’s. Only direct 
costs that the COR has preapproved, and that the COR finds allowable and allocable may be 
charged to the contract. It is the responsibility of the contractor to manage the ODC CLIN 
amount through the duration of the contract; as no additional funding will be provided. All ODCs 
shall be fully supported in compliance with all competition requirements of the FAR, specifically 
Part 31. All ODCs shall be reported as stated in the Procurement of Hardware, Software, 
Equipment and Materials Section 2.2.3.1, as well as the Monthly Progress Report Section 1.14.6.  
  
Overseas Housing Allowance:  The Government will reimburse the Contractor for Overseas 
Housing Allowance paid to employees assigned to provide on-site support to an OCONUS MTF, 
not to exceed the rate provided by the JTR. Within one month after task order award or employee 
assignment to an overseas location whichever is later, the Contractor shall submit, for each 
employee assigned to an overseas location, written estimates of costs, or actual costs if they are 
known. Quarterly, thereafter (March, June, September and December), the Contractor shall 
validate the need and amount of the Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) by submitting the 
actual annual expenses of rent and utilities, supported by receipts or other satisfactory evidence, 
for each employee assigned to an overseas location. (CDRL A009)  
 
ODC’s may include Overseas Housing Allowance, OCONUS Cost of Living Allowance, 
9 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
OCONUS Dependent Education Expense Materials, Relocation Travel Conference Room 
reservations for offsite meetings, Office supplies/Exhibit Booth supplies, SW subscriptions, 
training (pre-approved by the Government outside Normal IA Security directives and 
Requirements) and devices, equipment or peripherals.  
 
All equipment or supplies purchased under the terms of this PWS must adhere to all DOD, 
regulatory, or other governmental guidelines for security or performance. 
 
1.10  Quality 
 
1.10.1  Quality Control (QC):  The contractor shall develop and maintain an effective QC 
program to ensure services are performed in accordance with this PWS.  The contractor shall 
develop and implement procedures to identify, prevent, and ensure nonrecurrence of defective 
services.  The contractor’s QC program is the means by which the work complies with stated 
requirements.  The QCP is to be delivered with the contractor’s proposal and a comprehensive 
written QCP shall be submitted to the CO and COR within 5 working days when changes are 
made thereafter. After acceptance of the QCP the Contractor shall receive the contracting 
officer’s (CO) acceptance in writing of any proposed change to its quality control system. See 
Part 7,Technical Exhibit 1Quality Control Plan (QCP) (CDRL) A001. 
 
1.10.2  Quality assurance (QA):  The government will evaluate the contractor’s performance 
under this contract in accordance with the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). This 
plan provides a systematic method for the Government to evaluate performance and to ensure 
that the contractor has performed in accordance with the performance standards. It defines how 
the performance standards will be applied, the frequency of surveillance, and the minimum 
acceptable defect rate(s).   
 
Quality Control Plan – CDRL A001 
The Contractor shall prepare and adhere to a Quality Control Plan (QCP). The QCP shall 
document how the Contractor will meet and comply with the quality standards established in this 
statement of work. At a minimum, the QCP must include a self-inspection plan, an internal 
staffing plan, and an outline of the procedures that the Contractor will use to maintain quality, 
timeliness, responsiveness, customer satisfaction, and any other requirements set forth in this 
solicitation. 
 
1.10.3  Contingency Operations Plan:  CDRL A008 - The Contractor shall develop and submit 
a Contingency Operations Plan to the Government. The Contingency Operations Plan shall be 
due ten (10) calendar days after the award of the order, and will be updated yearly. The 
Contingency Operations Plan shall document Contractor plans and procedures to maintain DHA 
support during an emergency. The Contingency Operations Plan shall include the following:  
 
• A description of the Contractor’s emergency management procedures and policy  
• A description of how the Contractor will account for their employees during an 
emergency  
• Planned temporary work locations or alternate facilities  
• How the Contractor will communicate with DHA during emergencies  
10 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
• A list of primary and alternate Contractor points of contact, each with primary and 
alternate: telephone numbers, e-mail addresses  
• Procedures for protecting Government furnished equipment (if any)  
• Procedures for safeguarding sensitive and/or classified Government information (if 
applicable) 
 
1.11  Contractor personnel 
 
1.11.1  CAC requirements:  For all contractors who will work in Government facilities, the 
Facilities Security Officer (FSO)/Company's Security point of contact (POC) will provide the 
Government all the required information per the DHA CAC request process current version 2.1, 
January 2018, or more recent when updated.  See process attached at Part 7 Section 7.1.1 of the 
PWS.  A CAC is the standard identification for eligible DoD contractor personnel.  
 
1.11.1.1  The Contractor shall return all CACs to the COR upon the departure of the 
Contractor(s). 
 
1.11.2  Contractor onboarding and training:  The contractor shall complete all requirements, 
training, and forms as prescribed in the following requirements: 
 
1.11.2.1  “Onboarding Checklist for Contractor Employees” is located at the DHA Onboarding and 
Offboarding Portal at https://info.health.mil/cos/admin/hr/IO/SitePages/Home.aspx
 
 
1.11.2.2  The DHA’s contractor training instructions embedded at Part 7 Section 7.1.2.  
(Government (DHA) requirements development staff must cut/paste onboarding checklist at 
https://info.health.mil/sites/DOP/OnboardingCtr/Contractor_OnBoarding_Checklist.pdf and 
embed most up-to-date form in Part 7, Section 7.1.2.) 
 
1.11.2.3  The contractor shall comply with onboarding requirements of the DHA for contractors 
needing to be issued CAC identification, including DoD- and DHA-directed training and forms 
submission, prior to network access, as displayed in the In/Out-Processing Portal at:  
https://info.health.mil/cos/admin/hr/IO/SitePages/home.aspx
 (note:  Public Key Infrastructure 
(PKI)-restricted, printed versions available). 
 
1.11.2.4  The DHA’s new employee handbook at Part 7 Section 7.1.4.   
 
1.11.3  Physical Security:  The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government 
equipment, information and property provided for contractor use. At the close of each work 
period, government facilities, equipment, and materials shall be secured. 
1.11.4  Key control:  The contractor shall establish and implement methods of making sure all 
keys/key cards issued to the contractor by the Government are not lost or misplaced and are not 
used by unauthorized persons.  NOTE:  All references to keys include key cards.  No keys issued 
to the contractor by the Government shall be duplicated.  The contractor shall develop 
procedures covering key control that shall be included in the QCP.  Such procedures shall 
include turn-in of any issued keys by personnel who no longer require access to locked areas.  
11 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
The contractor shall immediately report any occurrences of lost or duplicate keys/key cards to 
the CO. 
1.11.4.1  In the event keys, other than master keys, are lost or duplicated, the contractor shall, 
upon direction of the CO, re-key or replace the affected lock or locks; however, the Government, 
at its option, may replace the affected lock or locks or perform re-keying.  When the replacement 
of locks or re-keying is performed by the Government, the total cost of re-keying or the 
replacement of the lock or locks shall be deducted from the monthly payment due the contractor.  
In the event a master key is lost or duplicated, all locks and keys for that system shall be replaced 
by the Government and the total cost deducted from the monthly payment due the contractor. 
 
1.11.4.2  The contractor shall prohibit the use of Government issued keys/key cards by any 
persons other than the contractor’s employees.  The contractor shall prohibit the opening of 
locked areas by contractor employees to permit entrance of persons other than contractor 
employees engaged in the performance of assigned work in those areas, or personnel authorized 
entrance by the CO. 
 
1.11.5  Lock combinations:  The contractor shall establish and implement methods of ensuring 
that all lock combinations are not revealed to unauthorized persons.  The contractor shall ensure 
that lock combinations are changed when personnel having access to the combinations no longer 
have a need to know such combinations.  These procedures shall be included in the contractor’s 
QCP. 
 
1.12  Key personnel (Contractor):  
 The Task Manager and the three (3) contractor Regional 
Senior Engineers shall be designated as Key Personnel. The Government reserves the right to 
pre-approve any replacement or substitution of Key Personnel. Contractor personnel must submit 
necessary information to be issued a clearance prior to reporting for performance. The contractor 
shall provide a contract manager who shall be responsible for the performance of the work. The 
name of this person and an alternate who shall act for the contractor when the manager is absent 
shall be designated in writing to the KO and CO. The contract manager or alternate shall have 
full authority to act for the contractor on all contract matters relating to daily operation of this 
contract. The contract manager or alternate shall be available between 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., 
Monday thru Friday except Federal holidays. Other Key Personnel are the Senior Network 
Engineers for CONUS, Europe, and Pacific Regions. 
 
1.12.1 Senior Network Engineer for CONUS 
 
1.12.1.1 Responsibilities: The Senior Network Engineer for CONUS region supports the medical 
mission of the DoD and ensures that the highly complex and technical requirements related to 
the infrastructure are addressed. The Senior Network Engineer for CONUS is a key personnel, 
and identifies and resolves larger, more complex LAN/WLAN/WAN network problems and 
issues, researches network-level problems using network management tools and is responsible 
for providing high-level installation, configuration, documentation, management and 
troubleshooting of LAN/WLAN/WAN communication equipment for all DHA networked 
facilities. Serves as the premier Network Specialist for this contract; subject matter expert for all 
issues covered under the other jobs discussed within. 
 
12 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Serves as the CONUS, as well as global, point of contact for network issues, configuration 
management and communications interconnection, addressing, and multi-protocol routing and 
network management. 
 
Advises and consults with government staff, agencies and other contractor representatives 
involved with LAN/WLAN/WAN design, network implementation, network deployment, and 
network management to ensure the LAN/WLAN/WAN adequately supports the MHS mission 
and provides optimal performance. Interfaces with and leads Network Specialists and internal or 
external organizations to resolve LAN/WLAN/WAN issues. 
 
The Senior Network Engineer for CONUS region is required to resolve technical issues 
associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the OSI model through the use of 
diagnostics and network administration tools such as Orion SolarWinds, ARMIS, and Ansible. 
An understanding of Management Information Blocks (MIB) and MRTG to measure, plan and 
execute methodologies to ensure high performance levels and minimum downtime. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Senior Network Engineer must be capable of 
establishing and configuring network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Provides written recommendations to personnel in the field by making either a change to 
network level operations or an enhancement to the network (tuning or upgrade), and 
documenting the change via a ticket, creating a written standard, or updating the written 
standards already in place by coordinating with the NetMOD Network Standards Team. Studies 
vendor products to determine which components and configurations best meet the requirements 
of DoD and MTFs in the Pacific region. Establishes and implements LAN/WLAN/WAN 
procedures and standards to ensure compliance with DoD and DHA Command objectives and 
policies. Communicates with key customers on the status of all network support requests. 
 
Beyond network design and implementation, the engineer continuously evaluates and resolves 
complex technical issues associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the Open 
Systems Interconnection (OSI) model through the use of diagnostics and network administration 
tools. Provides proactive input on policies and issues related to standardization as well as 
develop and write policies and procedures that identify best practice solutions necessary for 
operations in support of the LAN/WLAN/WAN. Defines and establishes minimum standards 
related to LAN/WLAN/WAN access and its impact on overall network operations. 
Leads/participates on other projects and support as the need arises. 
 
1.12.1.2 QUALIFICATIONS: Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 
8140.01 “CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 
“IDENTIFICATION, TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE 
REQUIREMENTS” is required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the 
Network Operations Specialist “Advanced”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification 
Program Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
13 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Ability to carry out functions of all subordinate positions listed in this Labor Category synopsis, 
should the individual be tasked with traveling to any site covered by this contract. 
 
1.12.1.3 EXPERIENCE: The Senior Network Engineer for the CONUS region must have a 
mastery of normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, 
HTTPS, SMTP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), 
EIGRP, BGP, OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), 
V.35, RS-449 and a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 
802.11, 802.3u, 803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. 
Additionally, the candidate must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with 
synchronous and asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 
FDDI, ATM, and other communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with 
various Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and 
EIA/TIA cable standards and specifications are also required. 
 
Possess a mastery level of experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that 
operate such items as current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, 
UNIX and OpenVMS and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local 
and long-haul WAN connectivity. 
 
1.12.1.4 Education: Bachelor's Degree in Computer Sciences, Engineering, technical degree or 
related discipline, and five years of directly related experience; or successful completion of a 
certified Technical or Vocational School and 10 years of directly related experience gained 
through progressively higher levels of complexity. 
 
1.12.1.5 Other Skills: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is required. 
Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks directly related to 
the proposed area of responsibility. Expertise in Windows networks, Cisco Systems, and Orion 
SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is desired; Cisco 
Certified Network Professional (CCNP) and Certified Information Systems Security Professional 
(CISSP) are required. 
 
1.12.1.6 Background: A “SECRET” security level designation is required for this position. 
 
1.12.1.7 Verbal & Written Communication Skillls: Must be able to communicate effectively with 
a broad audience to include Government officials, medical professionals and highly specialized 
technical personnel, both verbally and in writing. 
 
1.12.2 Senior Network Engineer for Pacific Region 
 
1.12.2.1 Responsibilities: The Senior Network Engineer for the Pacific region supports the 
medical mission of the DoD and ensures that the highly complex and technical requirements 
related to the infrastructure are addressed. The Senior Network Engineer for Pacific is a key 
personnel, and identifies and resolves larger, more complex LAN/WLAN/WAN network 
problems and issues, researches network-level problems using network management tools and is 
responsible for providing high-level installation, configuration, documentation, management and 
14 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
troubleshooting of LAN/WLAN/WAN communication equipment for all DHA networked 
facilities within the Pacific Region. 
 
Serves as the regional point of contact for network issues, configuration management and 
communications interconnection, addressing, and multi-protocol routing and network 
management. 
 
Advises and consults with government staff, agencies and other contractor representatives 
involved with LAN/WLAN/WAN design, network implementation, network deployment, and 
network management to ensure the LAN/WLAN/WAN adequately supports the MHS mission 
and provides optimal performance. Interfaces with and leads Network Specialists and internal or 
external organizations to resolve LAN/WLAN/WAN issues. 
 
The Senior Network Engineer for the Pacific region is required to resolve technical issues 
associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the OSI model through the use of 
diagnostics and network administration tools such as Orion SolarWinds, ARMIS, and Ansible. 
An understanding of Management Information Blocks (MIB) and MRTG to measure, plan and 
execute methodologies to ensure high performance levels and minimum downtime. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Senior Network Engineer must be capable of 
establishing and configuring network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Provides written recommendations to personnel in the field by making either a change to 
network level operations or an enhancement to the network (tuning or upgrade), and 
documenting the change via a ticket, creating a written standard, or updating the written 
standards already in place by coordinating with the NetMOD Network Standards Team. Studies 
vendor products to determine which components and configurations best meet the requirements 
of DoD and MTFs in the Pacific region. Establishes and implements LAN/WLAN/WAN 
procedures and standards to ensure compliance with DoD, DHA, and DHA Pacific Regional 
Command objectives and policies. Communicates with key customers on the status of all 
network support requests. 
 
Beyond network design and implementation, the engineer continuously evaluates and resolves 
complex technical issues associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the Open 
Systems Interconnection (OSI) model through the use of diagnostics and network administration 
tools. Provides proactive input on policies and issues related to standardization as well as 
develop and write policies and procedures that identify best practice solutions necessary for 
operations in support of the LAN/WLAN/WAN. Defines and establishes minimum standards 
related to LAN/WLAN/WAN access and its impact on overall network operations. 
Leads/participates on other projects and support as the need arises. 
 
1.12.2.2 QUALIFICATIONS: Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 
8140.01 “CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 
“IDENTIFICATION, TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE 
15 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
REQUIREMENTS” is required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the 
Network Operations Specialist “Advanced”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification 
Program Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
1.12.2.3 EXPERIENCE: The Senior Network Engineer for the Pacific region must have a 
mastery of normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, 
HTTPS, SMTP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), 
EIGRP, BGP, OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), 
V.35, RS-449 and a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 
802.11, 802.3u, 803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. 
Additionally, the candidate must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with 
synchronous and asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 
FDDI, ATM, and other communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with 
various Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and 
EIA/TIA cable standards and specifications are also required. 
 
Possess a mastery level of experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that 
operate such items as current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, 
UNIX and OpenVMS and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local 
and long-haul WAN connectivity. 
 
1.12.2.4 Education: Bachelor's Degree in Computer Sciences, Engineering, technical degree or 
related discipline, and five years of directly related experience; or successful completion of a 
certified Technical or Vocational School and 10 years of directly related experience gained 
through progressively higher levels of complexity. 
 
1.12.2.5 Other Skills: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is required. 
Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks directly related to 
the proposed area of responsibility. Expertise in Windows networks, Cisco Systems, and Orion 
SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is desired; Cisco 
Certified Network Professional (CCNP) and Certified Information Systems Security Professional 
(CISSP) are required. 
 
1.12.2.6 Background: A “SECRET” security level designation is required for this position. 
 
1.12.2.7 Verbal & Written Communication Skills: Must be able to communicate effectively with 
a broad audience to include Government officials, medical professionals and highly specialized 
technical personnel. 
 
1.12.3 Senior Network Engineer for EUROPE 
 
1.12.3.1 Responsibilities: The Senior Network Engineer for Europe supports the medical mission 
of the DoD and ensures that the highly complex and technical requirements related to the 
infrastructure are addressed. The Senior Network Engineer for Europe is a key personnel, and 
identifies and resolves larger, more complex LAN/WLAN/WAN network problems and issues, 
researches network-level problems using network management tools and is responsible for 
16 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
providing high-level installation, configuration, documentation, management and 
troubleshooting of LAN/WLAN/WAN communication equipment for all DHA networked 
facilities within the Pacific Region. 
 
Serves as the regional point of contact for network issues, configuration management and 
communications interconnection, addressing, and multi-protocol routing and network 
management. 
 
Advises and consults with government staff, agencies and other contractor representatives 
involved with LAN/WLAN/WAN design, network implementation, network deployment, and 
network management to ensure the LAN/WLAN/WAN adequately supports the MHS mission 
and provides optimal performance. Interfaces with and leads Network Specialists and internal or 
external organizations to resolve LAN/WLAN/WAN issues. 
 
The Senior Network Engineer for Europe is required to resolve technical issues associated with 
network and routing protocols at all levels of the OSI model through the use of diagnostics and 
network administration tools such as Orion SolarWinds, ARMIS, and Ansible. An understanding 
of Management Information Blocks (MIB) and MRTG to measure, plan and execute 
methodologies to ensure high performance levels and minimum downtime. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Senior Network Engineer must be capable of 
establishing and configuring network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Provides written recommendations to personnel in the field by making either a change to 
network level operations or an enhancement to the network (tuning or upgrade), and 
documenting the change via a ticket, creating a written standard, or updating the written 
standards already in place by coordinating with the NetMOD Network Standards Team. Studies 
vendor products to determine which components and configurations best meet the requirements 
of DoD and MTFs in the Europe region. Establishes and implements LAN/WLAN/WAN 
procedures and standards to ensure compliance with DoD, DHA, and DHA European Regional 
Command objectives and policies. Communicates with key customers on the status of all 
network support requests. 
 
Establishes and implements LAN/WLAN/WAN procedures and standards to ensure compliance 
with DoD and European Regional Command objectives and policies. Communicates with key 
customers on the status of all network support requests. 
 
Beyond network design and implementation, the engineer continuously evaluates and resolves 
complex technical issues associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the Open 
Systems Interconnection (OSI) model through the use of diagnostics and network administration 
tools. Provides proactive input on policies and issues related to standardization as well as 
develop and write policies and procedures that identify best practice solutions necessary for 
operations in support of the LAN/WLAN/WAN. Defines and establishes minimum standards 
17 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
related to LAN/WLAN/WAN access and its impact on overall network operations. 
Leads/participates on other projects and support as the need arises. 
 
1.12.3.2 QUALIFICATIONS: Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 
8140.01 “CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 
“IDENTIFICATION, TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE 
REQUIREMENTS” is required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the 
Network Operations Specialist “Advanced”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification 
Program Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
Ability to carry out functions of all subordinate positions listed in this Labor Category synopsis, 
should the individual be tasked with traveling to any site covered by this contract. 
 
1.12.3.3 EXPERIENCE: The Senior Network Engineer for Europe must have a mastery of 
normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, 
SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), EIGRP, BGP, 
OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), V.35, RS-449 and 
a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 802.11, 802.3u, 
803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. Additionally, the candidate 
must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with synchronous and 
asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, ATM, and other 
communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with various Optical Time 
Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and EIA/TIA cable standards and 
specifications are also required. 
 
Possess a mastery level of experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that 
operate such items as current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, 
UNIX and OpenVMS and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local 
and long-haul WAN connectivity. 
 
1.12.3.4 Education: Bachelor's Degree in Computer Sciences, Engineering, technical degree or 
related discipline, and five years of directly related experience; or successful completion of a 
certified Technical or Vocational School and 10 years of directly related experience gained 
through progressively higher levels of complexity. 
 
1.12.3.5 Other Skills: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is required. 
Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks directly related to 
the proposed area of responsibility. Expertise in Windows networks, Cisco Systems, and Orion 
SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is desired; Cisco 
Certified Network Professional (CCNP) and Certified Information Systems Security Professional 
(CISSP) are required. 
 
1.12.3.6 Background: A “SECRET” security level designation is required for this position. 
 
18 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
1.12.3.7 Verbal & Written Communication Skills: Must be able to communicate effectively with 
a broad audience to include Government officials, medical professionals and highly specialized 
technical personnel, both verbally and in writing. 
 
1.13  Data rights:  The Government will retain rights to all data produced in the course of 
developing, deploying, training, using and supporting DHA or other federal agencies that utilize 
this order. 
 
1.14  Reporting 
 
1.14.1  Contractor Manpower Reporting (CMR):  (
CDRL A006). At a minimum, on a 
monthly basis, the contractor shall provide the COR an updated list of personnel in accordance 
with Part 7, Section 7.3, CRDL A002.   
 
1.14.2  Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA): (CDRL A003) All contractor personnel who will 
obtain access to proprietary, classified, or confidential information or any information release of 
which is protected or governed by law or regulation associated with DHA acquisitions shall be 
required to complete and sign a DHA contractor NDA (DHA Form 49) prior to beginning work 
on the subject contract.  The contractor shall execute an NDA on behalf of the company and shall 
ensure that all staff assigned to, including all subcontractors and consultants, or other personnel 
performing on contract/Task order execute an NDA protecting the procurement sensitive 
information of the Government and the proprietary information of other contractors.  The NDA 
shall be executed not later than first day of employment and to be renewed upon exercising a 
contract option period.  Assignment of staff who has not executed this statement or failure to 
adhere to this statement shall constitute default on the part of the contractor.  The contractor shall 
maintain originally signed NDAs of individual employees and provide copy to the COR. 
 
1.14.3  Government’s COR:  The COR monitors all technical aspects of the contract and assists 
in contract administration.  The COR is authorized to perform the following functions:  assure 
that the contractor performs the technical requirements of the contract; perform inspections 
necessary in connection with contract performance; maintain written and oral communications 
with the contractor concerning technical aspects of the contract; issue written interpretations of 
technical requirements, including Government drawings, designs, specifications; monitor 
contractor's performance and notifies both the CO and contractor of any deficiencies; coordinate 
availability of government furnished property; and provide site entry of contractor personnel.  A 
letter of designation issued to the COR, a copy of which is sent to the contractor, states the 
responsibilities and limitations of the COR, especially with regard to changes in cost or price, 
estimates or changes in delivery dates.  The COR is not authorized to change any of the terms 
and conditions of the resulting contract.  
 
1.14.4  Post award conference/periodic progress meetings:  The contractor agrees to attend 
any post award conference convened by the contracting activity or contract administration office 
in accordance with FAR Subpart 42.5.  The CO, COR, and other Government personnel, as 
appropriate, may meet periodically with the contractor to review the contractor's performance.  
At these meetings the CO will apprise the contractor of how the government views the 
contractor's performance and the contractor will apprise the Government of problems, if any, 
19 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
being experienced.  Appropriate action shall be taken to resolve outstanding issues.  These 
meetings shall be at no additional cost to the government. 
 
1.14.5  Weekly Vacancy Report – CDRL A004 
The Contractor shall provide a weekly report on the vacancies across all locations. The exact 
content of this report will be determined after task order award by the COR after collaboration 
with the Contractor. 
 
1.14.6  Monthly Progress Report (MPR)  - CDRL A005 
The Contractor shall prepare and deliver a Monthly Progress Report, The MPR shall outline the 
following: 
 
 
• Expenditures 
• Progress (i.e. performance against schedule) 
• Status 
• Significant events 
• Customer Satisfaction – Report customer satisfaction rate every six months showing 
percentage of completed survey forms that qualitatively demonstrate customer 
satisfaction with DHA’s provision of service 
• Trouble Ticket Resolution for Tier 0 (i.e not escalated to the Network Support Center) - 
Report percentage of calls resolved at the site • Tier 0 Trouble Tickets opened, in 
progress, resolved and closed during the month 
• LAN/WAN issues 
• TCP/IP address changes 
• Circuits in-use 
• Circuits no longer in-use 
• Circuits connected 
• Circuits disconnected 
• Circuit upgrades completed 
• Updates to the network physical configuration topology diagrams 
• LAN downtime 
• WAN downtime 
• Remote circuit uptime 
• Router configuration changes 
 
The MPR shall also include the following information by facility: 
• Firewall/Security Suite configuration changes 
• Miscellaneous monthly changes and other significant events 
• Schedule of planned activities 
• Activities completed to date 
• Remaining activities, if applicable (plans vs. achievements) 
• Lessons learned 
• Risks and mitigation of risks 
• Any government action needed 
• Monthly ITSM tier 0 (initiated at site) ticket summary 
• Document problems encountered and provide the resultant impacts. 
20 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
• Other information requested by DHA on a recurring or as requested basis. 
 
1.15  Contractor Identification 
1.15.1  Contractor personnel performing services in a contractor capacity in a Government 
facility are required to possess and wear an identification badge that displays his or her name and 
the name of their company.  All contractor personnel shall identify themselves as contractor 
support personnel in all forms of communication with all entities with whom DHA/Deputy 
Assistant Director for Acquisition (DAD-A)/Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA) has 
business dealings.  The contractor shall:  Answer all telephone calls and have a personalized 
voice message with an introductory statement that includes the fact that the person is contractor 
support personnel.  Ensure all those with whom the person interacts in any face-to-face dealings 
while supporting the DAD-A understands that the person is contractor support personnel.  
Include a title block in all emails that states the fact that the person is contractor support 
personnel.  Ensure all those with whom the person interacts in any face-to-face dealings while 
supporting DHA/DAD-A/HCA understands that the person is contractor support personnel. 
1.15.2  Contractor personnel will be required to attend meetings or otherwise communicate with 
Government and/or other contract representatives to meet the requirements of this order.  
Contractor personnel shall make their contractor status known during introductions. 
1.15.3  Contractor personnel, while performing in a contractor capacity, are prohibited from 
using their retired or reserve component military rank or title in any written or verbal 
communications associated with the contracts in which they provide services. 
 
1.16  Contractor Access to Health Affairs (HA)/DHA Network(s) 
 
1.16.1  FSO/Company's Security POC shall notify the DHA Personnel Security Office after 
being awarded a contract that requires access to a DoD system (.  Contractor personnel requiring 
access to the HA/DHA networks for performance of their tasks require a background 
investigation and the security awareness training.  The contractor shall be prepared for this 
process as it could take two (2) or more weeks.  The FSO/Security POC shall submit a Standard 
Form (SF) 85/86 to DHA's Personnel Security Office for a background investigation. 
 
1.16.2  Company's FSO/Security POC must notify the Personnel Security Office when the 
contractor has submitted the SF-85/86.  The FSO/Security POC, or the COR must notify the 
DHA Personnel Security Office in writing of a contractor's termination from the contract, 
including the termination date. 
 
1.17  Personnel Security 
 
1.17.1  The contractor shall comply with DoD 8570.01-M, “Information Assurance Workforce 
Improvement Program, CH4” November 10, 2015 as amended; 8500.01, “Cybersecurity”, dated 
March 14, 2014; DoD Manual (DoDM) 6025.18, “Implementation of the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule Compliance in DoD Health Care 
Programs” dated March 3, 2019, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6025.18 “HIPAA 
Privacy Rule Compliance in DoD Health Care Programs”, dated March 13, 2019; and DoDM 
5200.02 “Procedures for the DoD Personnel Security Program (PSP),” incorporation change 3, 
21 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
effective September 24, 2020.  Contractor responsibilities for ensuring personnel security 
include, but are not limited to, meeting the following requirements:  
 
1.17.1.1  Follow the DHA Personnel Security Office guidelines for submittal of security 
clearances.  Contact the DHA Personnel Security Office for guidance on the appropriate 
background investigation required for personnel on the contract.  The DHA Personnel Security 
Office can be reached at (703) 275-6038. 
 
1.17.1.2  Initiate, maintain, and document personnel security investigations appropriate to the 
individual’s responsibilities and required access to Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI). 
 
1.17.1.3  DHA Personnel Security Office does not deny any access to any automated information 
system (AIS), network, or Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI).  If a contractor receives an 
unfavorable background investigation, the request for access will be sent back to the FSO for 
further action.  Any unfavorable adjudication will result in DHA Personnel Security Office not 
signing off on any access request. 
22 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 2 
2.0 DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS, AND APPLICABLE 
PUBLICATIONS/INSTRUCTIONS 
 
 
2.1  Definitions:   
 
2.1.1  Category D:  Information Technology (IT) and Telecommunications Services (called D-
Services) 
 
2.1.2  Category R:  Support (Professional/Administrative/Management) Services (called R-
Services) 
 
2.1.3  Contracting Officer (CO):  A person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or 
terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings. 
 
2.1.4  Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR):  An individual, including a contracting 
officer’s technical representative (COTR), designated and authorized in writing by the CO to 
perform specific technical or administrative functions.  This individual does NOT have authority 
to change the terms and conditions of the contract.  
 
2.1.5  Nonpersonal services contract:  a contract under which the personnel rendering the 
services are not subject, either by the contract’s terms or by the manner of its administration, to 
the supervision and control usually prevailing in relationships between the Government and its 
employees. 
 
2.1.6  Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP):  An organized written document specifying 
the surveillance methodology to be used for surveillance of contractor performance.  The 
Government may either prepare the QASP or require the offerors to submit a proposed quality 
assurance surveillance plan for the Government’s consideration in development of the 
Government’s plan. 
 
2.2  Acronyms:   
 
AIS   Automated Information System 
APL   Approved Products List APL 
AQL   Acceptable Quality Level 
ARRT   Acquisition Requirements Roadmap Tool 
ATO    Authority to Operate 
B2B   Business-2-Business 
CAC   Common Access Card 
CAP   Cloud Access Point 
CCEVS   Common Criteria Cybersecurity Evaluation and Validation Scheme 
CDI    Covered Defense Information 
CE   Computer Environment 
CDRL   Contract Data Requirement List 
23 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
CIO   Chief Information Officer 
CJCSM  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 
CMMC   Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification 
CMR   Contractor Manpower Reporting  
CNSSI   Committee on National Security Systems Instruction 
CO   Contracting Officer(s) 
CONUS  Continental United States (excludes Alaska and Hawaii) 
COR   Contracting Officer Representative 
COTR   Contracting Officer's Technical Representative 
CSP   Cloud Service Provider 
CSSP   Cyber Security Service Provider 
CUI    Controlled Unclassified Information 
DAD-A  Deputy Assistant Director for Acquisition 
DC3   DoD Cyber Crime Center 
DD Form 254 Department of Defense Contract Security Requirement List (if applicable) 
DB Design-Build 
DBB   Design-Bid-Build 
DFARS  Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
DHA   Defense Health Agency 
DISA   Defense Information System Agency 
DoD   Department of Defense 
DoDD   Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI   Department of Defense Instruction 
DSAs   Data Sharing Agreements 
DSAA   Data Sharing Agreement Application 
DMZ   Demilitarized Zone 
DoDM   Department of Defense Manual 
DPCLO  DHA Privacy and Civil Liberties Office  
DUA    Data Use Agreement 
eMSM   Enhanced Multi-Service Markets 
EULA   End User License Agreement 
EVM   Earned Value Management 
FAR   Federal Acquisition Regulation 
FCI   Federal contract information 
FE   Facilities Enterprise 
FedRAMP  Federal Risk Authorization and Management Program 
FISMA  Federal Information Security Modernization Act  
FRCS    Facility Related Control Systems 
FSO   Facilities Security Officer 
HA   Health Affairs 
HIPAA  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act  
HCA   Head of the Contracting Activity  
HIT   Health Information Technology 
IGCE Independent Government Cost Estimate 
IA   Information Assurance 
IO   Initial Outfitting 
24 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
I/O   In/Out Processing Portal 
IPv   Internet Protocol Version 
IS   Information System 
ISP   Internet Service Provider 
IT   Information Technology 
ISCM   Information Security Continuous Monitoring 
IV&V   Independent Verification & Validation 
JTR   Joint Travel Regulations 
MedCOI  Medical Community of Interest 
MHS   Military Health System  
MIL-STD  Military Standard 
MTFs   Military Treatment Facilities 
NCR   National Capitol Region  
NDA   Non-Disclosure Agreement 
NIAP   National Information Assurance Partnership 
NIST   National Institute of Standards and Technology 
OCONUS  Outside Continental United States (includes Alaska and Hawaii) 
ODC    Other Direct Costs  
OPM   Office of Personal Management 
OSD   Office of the Secretary of Defense  
P-ATO   Personal Authorization to Operate 
P&R   Personnel and Readiness  
PGI   Procedures, Guidance and Information 
PDT   Project Delivery Team 
PHI    Protected Health Information 
PII    Personally Identifiable Information 
PIT   Platform Information Technology 
PK    Public Key 
PKI    Public Key Infrastructure 
POA&M  Plan of Action and Milestones 
POC   Point of Contact 
PMO   Program Management Office 
PoP   Period of Performance 
PP   Personal Property 
PPSM   Ports, Protocols, and Services Management  
PRS   Performance Requirements Summary 
PSP    Personnel Security Program  
PWS   Performance Work Statement 
QA   Quality Assurance 
QAP   Quality Assurance Program 
QASP   Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan 
QC   Quality Control 
QCP   Quality Control Plan 
RFP   Request for Proposal 
RFQ   Request for Quotation 
RMF    Risk Management Framework 
25 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
SP   Special Publication 
SPRS    Supplier Performance Risk System 
SRM   Sustainment, Restoration and Modernization 
SRG   Security Requirements Guides 
STIG   Security Technical Implementation Guides 
TM   Task Manager 
TOS   Terms of Service 
US   United States 
UFC    Unified Facilities Criteria 
VPN   Virtual Private Network 
XML   Extensible Markup Language  
 
2.3  Applicable Publications, DHA Administrative Instructions (AI), etc.   
The Contractor shall abide by all current and applicable regulations, publications, manuals, and 
local policies and procedures, including the following DoD Regulations: 
• DoD Instruction Number 8510.01, Risk Management Framework for DoD Information 
Technology (IT),  
• DoD Directive, Defense Health Agency (DHA) DoDD 5136.13  
• DoD Instruction 8410.02, NetOps for the Global Information Grid (GIG)  
• DoDI 8580.02, Security of Individually Identifiable Health Information in DoD Health 
Care Programs  
• DoDI 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Technology (IT) Services in the 
Department of Defense  
• DoD Instruction 6490.03, Deployment Health  
• DoD Instruction 5400.16, DoD Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) Guidance  
• Joint Publication 3-12 (R) Cyberspace Operations  
• DoDI 8500.01, Cybersecurity  
• DoD Directive 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information 
Enterprise  
• DoD Directive 8100.02, Use of Commercial Wireless Devices, Services, and 
Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information Grid (GIG)  
• DoD Instruction 6025.19, Individual Medical Readiness (IMR)  
• DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation  
• DoDI 5200.44, Protection of Mission Critical Functions to Achieve Trusted Systems & 
Networks  
• DoD Instruction 8410.03, Network Management (NM)  
• Military Health System OCIO Policy #11  
• DoD Instruction 8420.01, Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, 
Systems, and Technologies  
• DoD Instruction 6025.22, Assistive Technology (AT) for Wounded, Ill, and Injured 
Service Members  
• Public Law 104-191, “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996”  
• DoD Instruction 6025.19, Individual Medical Readiness (IMR)  
• DoD Instruction 8551.01, Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM)  
• DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program  
26 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
• DoD Instruction 8520.02, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling  
• Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802 - Standards for Local and 
Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview and Architecture.   
• Telecommunications Industry Association/Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 
TIA/EIA-606-A - Administration Standard for the Telecommunications Infrastructure of 
Commercial Buildings.  
• J-STD-607-A - Commercial Building Grounding (Earthing) and Bonding Requirements 
for Telecommunications (ANSI/J-STD--607-A - 2002)   
• TIA/EIA - 568-B.1 – Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard – Part 
1: General Requirements (ANSI/TIA/EIA-568-B.1-2001)   
• TIA/EIA - 568-B.2 – Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard – Part 
2: Balanced Twisted Pair Cabling Components (ANSI/TIA/EIA-568-B.2-2001)   
• TIA/EIA – 568-B.3 – Optical Fiber Cabling Components Standard (ANSI/TIA/EIA-568-
B.3-2000)   
• DoD Regulation 5200.2-R, “DoD Personnel Security Program,"   
• DoD Regulation 5000.2-R, "Mandatory procedures for Major Defense Acquisition 
Programs (MDAP) and Major Automated Information System Acquisition Programs 
(MAISAPs)," Department of Defense Joint Technical Architecture,   
• MHS Automated Information System (AIS) Security Policy Manual,   
• MHS Architectural Framework,   
• Building Industry Consulting Services International (BICSI), Information Transport 
Systems Installation Manual (ITSIM),   
• Software Engineering Institute Capability Maturity Modeling (SEI CMM), Level 2 
procedures and processes   
• DoDM 8140.03 “Cyberspace Workforce Qualification and Management Program” 
• Army in Europe Regulation 715-9, “Contractor Personnel in Germany – Technical 
Expert, Troop Care & Analytical Support”  
  
 
2.4  Geographic Area Specific 
 
2.4.1  CONUS:  Follow local MTF guidance and policies.  
 
2.4.2  OCONUS:  Contractor is responsible for following and understanding all host country 
specific work requirements and agreements. 
 
 
 
  
27 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 3 
3.0 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND SERVICES 
 
  
The Requiring Activity Authority has assessed the need for Government Furnished Property, 
Equipment, and Services and determined: 
 
3.1 Services:  The Government: 
 
☐ Will NOT provide Government Furnished Services in support of this contract/task order.  As 
a result, this paragraph is Not Applicable. 
 
☒ WILL provide Government Furnished Services required in support of this contract/task 
orders.  These Services are described below:   
Provide Maintenance Contracts  
Modernization of equipment, systems, or supplies  
Network Monitoring and/or Management Applications   
Relevant network security applications, systems, hardware, and integrations 
______________________________________________________________________________ 
_____________________________________________________________________________ 
 
3.2 Facilities:  The Government: 
 
☐ Will NOT provide Facilities in support of this contract/task order.  As a result, this paragraph 
is Not Applicable. 
 
☒ WILL provide Facilities in support of this contract/task orders.  The Government provided 
Facilities are described below:  
 
Office space in the MTFs or Facilities identified in Attachment 7 or attached site locations 
document 
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
3.3 Utilities:  The Government:  
 
☐ Will NOT provide Utilities in support of this contract/task order.  As a result, this paragraph is 
Not Applicable. 
 
☒ WILL provide Utilities in support of this contract/task orders.  The Government provided 
Utilities are described below:   
 
All utilities in the facility will be available for the contractor’s use in performance of tasks 
outlined in this PWS. 
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
28 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
3.4 Equipment:  The Government:  
 
☐ Will NOT provide Equipment in support of this contract/task order.  As a result, this 
paragraph is Not Applicable. 
 
☒ WILL provide Equipment in support of this contract/task orders.  The Government provided 
Equipment is described below:   
 
The Government will provide telephones, facsimile machines, copiers and computer equipment 
to include laptops for use in performance under this contract/task order. This equipment is 
authorized for transaction of official Government business only and shall not be used for 
personal business. Personal long distance calls are not authorized and the cost of all personal 
long distance calls made by contractor or subcontractor employees may be deducted from the 
contractor/s invoice payments. Telephones, facsimile machines and computer equipment to 
include laptops are subject to communications security monitoring at all times. Contractor and 
subcontract employees may be issued keys signed for at scheduled and unscheduled key control 
inspections. The contractor shall be required to reimburse the Government for lost keys, or 
lockset (if lockset is required to be replaced) as a result of lost keys. The cost of replacement of 
keys/locksets may be deducted from payments to the contractor. Items issued will remain the 
property of the Government and the contractor will maintain proper accountability of issued 
equipment. Equipment shall not be removed from the facilities shown in paragraph 3.2 above, 
unless otherwise specified in the PWS. They are to be used, turned in and/or disposed of as 
directed by the COR or CO.” 
 
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
3.4.1 Procurement Integrated Enterprise (PIEE), GFP Module Application The contractor 
shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining access, training and successful operation of 
the PIEE/GFP Module application for the entirety of the contract/task order PoP.  The PIEE GFP 
Module application is located at the following website:  https://wawf.eb.mil/piee-landing/
.  
Access to PIEE/GFP Module application training materials and in-depth information applicable 
to the contractor’s responsibilities regarding GFP can be found at the following website:  
https://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/.  
 
Contracting Office Responsibilities: 
The Contracting Office shall ensure close coordination and validation of the GFP items with the 
COR and DHA Accountable Property Officer prior to uploading the GFP Attachment into the 
PIEE/GFP Module.  At the time GFP is anticipated and identified, the Government will upload 
the GFP Attachment into the PIEE/GFP Module.  It is the Contracting Office’s responsibility to 
prepare, upload and maintain the GFP Attachment in the PIEE/GFP Module in accordance with 
the GFP Attachment instructions provided at the DoD Procurement Toolbox.  The CO and COR 
shall manage and keep an inventory of any GFP associated with contract/task orders awarded 
through DHA, in accordance with applicable FAR Part 45, DoD FAR Supplement (DFARS) 245 
with respective clauses, DHA AI 095 and PD 45-01 following the change in disposition of items 
listed on that PIEE/GFP Module Attachment. 
29 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
The contracting office will also review, acknowledge, reject and/or approve shipment orders 
provided by the contractor as appropriate.  Functional roles can be determined within the 
Contracting Office, and requested within the PIEE/GFP Module system. 
 
Contractor Responsibilities: 
A key contractor responsibility is to work with the CO and COR to ensure the PIEE/GFP Module 
data, to include the PIEE/GFP Attachment, provides a timely, complete and accurate accounting 
of the GFP applicable to the contract/task order.  Contractors are required to report the receipt of 
any GFP shipped to them, regardless of whether it is listed on the GFP Attachment for their 
contract.  Similarly, contractors are required to utilize the GFP Module application in 
conjunction with the shipment of GFP to the Government, or in reporting Property Loss of GFP 
issued (such as destruction or loss).  Discrepancies or disputes regarding property shipped to or 
shipped from the contractor must be reported via the GFP Module application, with the CO 
having authority over final designation of status. 
 
 
3.5 Materials:  The Government:   
 
☒ Will NOT provide Materials in support of this contract/task order.  As a result, this paragraph 
is Not Applicable. 
 
☐ IS providing Materials in support of this contract/task orders.  The Government-provided 
Materials are described below:   
 
 
 
30 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 4 
4.0 CONTRACTOR FURNISHED ITEMS AND SERVICES 
 
4.1 Services:  The Contractor: 
 
☒ Will NOT provide Contractor Furnished Services in support of this contract/task order.  As a 
result, this paragraph is Not Applicable. 
 
☐ WILL provide Contractor Furnished Services required in support of this contract/task orders.  
These Services are described below:   
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
4.2  General:   The contractor shall furnish all supplies, equipment, facilities and services 
required to perform work listed under Section 5 of this PWS. Provide required initial and 
proficiency training for its personnel to maintain pace with technological advances. This training 
shall be at no additional cost to the government.   Contractor shall ensure appropriate employees 
maintain the required certifications for their specialty. 
 
4.3  Secret Facility Clearance:   The contractor shall possess and maintain a SECRET facility 
clearance from the Defense Security Service.  The contractor’s employees, performing work in 
support of this contract shall have been granted a SECRET security clearance from the Defense 
Industrial Security Clearance Office.   
 
4.4  Materials:  N/A 
 
4.5  Equipment:  N/A 
 
4.6  Facilities:   The contractor when authorized to Remote Work, telework, or work from a non-
government facility, the Contractor will ensure their employees have the workspace, telephone, 
and internet access, sufficient privacy to prevent inadvertent access to HIPAA information or 
Controlled Unclassified Information, observe all security and OPSEC requirements, and other 
capabilities necessary to perform their assigned tasks.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all 
communications costs for data access to connect to government networks. Contractor employees 
shall utilize the Virtual Private Network (VPN), use their Common Access Card (CAC) when 
performing telework, and stay connected with teammates and government personnel through the 
use of the DoD-approved chatting tool, such as MS Teams.  At a minimum, all contractor 
employees shall be required to update their CACs and log into their accounts at nearest capable 
Government installation annually. 
 
31 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 5 
5.0 SPECIFIC TASKS 
 
 
5.1 Program Management 
The Contractor shall provide sufficient management to ensure that this task is performed 
efficiently, accurately, on time, and in compliance with the requirements of this document. 
Specifically, the Contractor shall designate a single manager to oversee this task and supervise 
staff assigned to this task. (CDRL A007) 
 
5.1.1 Operations during Emergency Situations 
Individual contingency operation plans shall be activated immediately after determining that an 
emergency has occurred, shall be operational within twelve (12) hours of activation, and shall be 
sustainable until the emergency situation is resolved and normal conditions are restored or the 
task order is terminated, whichever comes first. In case of a life threatening emergency, the COR 
shall immediately make contact with the Contractor Task Manager to ascertain the status of any 
Contractor personnel who were located in Government controlled space affected by the 
emergency. When any disruption of normal, daily operations occur, the Contractor Task 
Manager shall promptly open an effective means of communication and verify: 
• Key points of contact (Government and Contractor) 
• Temporary work locations (alternate office spaces, telework, virtual offices, etc.) 
• Means of communication available under the circumstances (e.g. email, webmail, 
telephone, FAX, courier, etc.) 
• Essential work products expected to continue production by priority 
 
The Contractor Task Manager, in coordination with the COR, must make use of the resources 
and tools available to continue DHA contracted functions to the maximum extent possible under 
emergency circumstances. The Contractor must obtain approval from the COR and Contracting 
Officer prior to incurring costs over and above those allowed for under the terms of this task 
order. Regardless of task order type, and of work location, Contractors performing work in 
support of authorized tasks within the scope of their task order shall charge those hours 
accurately in accordance with the terms of this task order. 
 
5.1.2 Contractor Personnel Performance/Replacement 
The contractor Task Manager and the three (3) Regional Senior Engineers shall be designated as 
Key Personnel. The Government reserves the right to pre-approve any replacement or 
substitution of Key Personnel. 
 
Contractor personnel must submit necessary information to be issued a clearance prior to 
reporting for performance. 
 
5.1.3 Contractor Training, Position Responsibilities and Qualifications 
The Contractor is required to provide personnel trained in systems, equipment, and software 
identified in attachment 7 ‘Labor Category Responsibilities and Required Qualifications’ 
(Updated 09.21.2020). This attachment outlines the position responsibilities and qualifications, 
32 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
including any necessary experience, education, and/or other skills required according to location 
assignment. 
 
Government training: The Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor employees attend or 
successfully complete all mandatory Government training. The training typically encompasses 
matters of security and safety, and is provided during billable time at no cost to the Contractor. 
Any additional training needed for newly deployed systems will be billable, at no cost to the 
Contractor. 
 
When operating Government owned or leased equipment, the Contractor shall ensure proper 
security clearance, (ADP sensitivity I, II, III) full familiarity with operation processes and 
procedures, and full compliance with site specific regulations, processes and procedures. When 
performing system operations, the Contractor shall ensure that staff sign and adhere to a Non-
disclosure Statement (Appendix C) and protect ALL patient and system information. 
 
5.1.3.1 Training Workshop 
The Government may choose to hold a training workshop on an annual or semi-annual basis, as 
needed, with the Contractor employees attending such mandatory workshop. The Contractor 
shall participate fully with the Government in the planning, organization, and all aspects of such 
workshops. The training will be provided at a date, time and location decided by the Government 
during billable time at no cost to the Contractor. 
 
5.2 Network Support 
The Contractor shall provide remote and/or on-site network (i.e. local, wireless, and wide area 
network) sustainment and deployment support services to the Defense Health Agency (DHA) 
Medical Treatment Facilities (MTF) and any other DHA Activity, which includes hospitals, 
clinics, and other remote elements throughout CONUS and OCONUS locations, as described in 
Section 7 Attachment 7, titled “List of Sites and Associated Support Details”. The Contractor 
shall support the overall network infrastructure at an MTF and respond to, detect, report, record, 
diagnose and resolve the occurrence of network faults as well as measure network performance 
and connectivity on an ongoing basis. The Contractor shall serve as an on-site resource for site 
coordination, troubleshooting, problem resolution, local inventory interfaces with MTF staff, and 
shall provide customer service and guidance to the various site staff within the MTFs. The 
Contractor may be required to provide support to the MTF in the following areas: 
• Install, relocate, configure, modify and test routers, switches, wireless access points and 
associated controllers, and terminal servers. 
• Create, maintain and manage Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs) in accordance with 
the DHA Standards and Zone Architecture Requirements. 
• Install, test, terminate and maintain cable. (Such installation will provide no warranty of 
installed cable or drops. All material and equipment required will be provided by the 
Government). 
• Troubleshoot wiring problems. 
• Certify wiring drops. 
• Troubleshoot serial communication lines. 
• Operate and maintain compliance with DHA Network Management Systems (NMS) 
standards, and ensure that 100% of the network infrastructure is communicating with and 
33 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
reporting in/to the DHA NMS; ensure compliance with device monitoring and 
configuration backup standards, processes, and procedures. 
• Conduct all activities required to support the Site and Enterprise ATO Package(s), such 
as self-assessments, implementation of security configurations within the timeline 
required by the severity of the IAVA/CVE or as directed by DHA, device security scans, 
maintenance of HW/SW Inventory List, etc, for all network infrastructure devices within 
the purvue of the Site or as directed by DHA. 
• Manage network operating systems (NOS) / Firmware and configurations of said network 
infrastructure devices in compliance with DHA Standards supporting any and all 
IAVAs/CVEs and STIGs on monthly or on an as needed basis if required completion or 
compliance basis is sooner. 
• Support diagnostics and configuration connectivity of MHS site/service specific servers, 
such as MHS GENESIS, Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS), 
Defense Blood Standard System (DBSS), Expense Assignment System (EAS) IV, as well 
as various office automation and electronic mail systems, suites, and clinical software 
add-ons, etc. 
• Maintain MHS site telecommunications systems if applicable. 
• Assist with the establishment and implementation of network policies, procedures and 
standards to include network security. 
• Support the MTF management staff with briefings and updates on network issues. 
• Complete DHA furnished Sparing & Maintenance hardware inventories by ensuring all 
network infrastructure devices are monitored by and reporting to the DHA NMS on 
atleast a monthly basis, and validate completion via a signed acknowledgment reviewable 
by the COR/TM. 
• Manage and/or Monitor security firewalls/Virtual Private Network (VPN) devices. 
• Collect Performance Measurement information and report/respond/remediate any 
anomalies. 
• Assist with DHA Infrastructure Modernization deployments and technical hardware 
refresh initiatives. Comply with required HW install in the timeframe requested by the 
Modernization Team, ensuring each piece of equipment is installed, DRMO’d, or sent 
back to the Modernization Team in the required timeframe, and finally documented 
within the DHA Ticketing System. 
• Participate in long-range MHS infrastructure planning and technical architecture 
• Develop, plan and maintain documentation necessary for operations in support of 
LAN/WLAN to WAN connectivity. 
• Define and recommend minimum standards, as applies to network operations, access to 
the Internet and its impact on overall network resourcing and operations. 
• Oversee the integration of network hardware and software platforms for LAN/WLAN 
connected systems and medical AISs at MTFs, clinics, etc. as directed by the COR. 
• Coordinate telecommunications actions with all applicable agencies and organizations as 
required. 
• Address user concerns with the LAN/WLAN/WAN service provider and alert users to 
routine maintenance impacting circuits. 
• Provide network related advice to DoD medical information systems personnel. 
• Share information with the contractor’s senior engineering staff such as lessons learned 
and issues requiring higher level technical or management involvement for resolution 
34 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
5.2.1 Network Development 
Additionally, the Contractor shall perform infrastructure analysis, integration and support of new 
technologies and products and communicate with external agencies for site-related activities and 
implementation actions and provide Technical Reports, Evaluations and Recommendations to 
include recommendations on technical solutions for regional upgrades, or network changes, such 
as: 
• Evaluate and recommend new and evolving networking technologies. 
• Evaluate vendor products. 
• Assess data, voice, and video network requirements. 
• Propose implementation strategies. 
• Propose enhancements or design changes to improve the efficiency of the networks. 
 
5.2.2 Network Management 
 
5.2.2.1 The Contractor shall complete DHA furnished Sparing & Maintenance hardware 
inventories by ensuring all network infrastructure devices are monitored by and reporting to the 
DHA NMS on atleast a monthly basis, to include adding and removing any equipment provided 
by and/or refreshed by the DHA Network Modernization Team.  This reporting is required to 
provide a more accurate and more efficient reporting and tracking mechanism of network 
infrastructure for the DHA Asset Management Team, supporting their activities of providing 
HW/SW Sustainment through contracts with the applicable Vendors. Completion will be 
validated and tracked through a signed letter of completion provided by the NE&S as part of the 
monthly deliverables, spot reviewed by TM and/or COR, with Semi-Annual review by the Asset 
Management Team.  Any changes to the inventory must be annotated in a ITSM Ticket to the 
AMSR Support Team. Each monthly validation is required to have atleast a 98.5% accuracy rate, 
and no more than two non-compliant reports per Period-of-Performance (PoP) will be allowed. 
(CDRL A010) 
 
5.2.2.2 The Contractor shall conduct/attend any walk-through and/or meeting where contractor 
maintained systems are discussed. The Contractor shall participate in Integrated Product Teams 
(IPT) as required by the Government. 
 
5.2.2.3 System Support 
In the process of providing network support, the Contractor shall be required to interface with 
MHS systems in troubleshooting network issues and in deliniating between system and 
network problems. This competency requires a basic knowledge of MHS system infrastructure 
and application systems, and applicable hardware and software configuration, operation and 
support skills. The Contractor shall apply any necessary software maintenance processes at, or 
equivalent to, the SEI CMM Level II, or higher. 
 
5.2.2,3. System Support (Sembach, Germany) – General systems administration support is 
required for specific Government systems. See description of required support in Attachment E 
“Systems and Network Specialist (Sembach, Germany). 
 
5.2.3 Basic Services 
35 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
5.2.3.1 As appropriate for skillset utilizing appropriate Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) 
and other supporting documentation. Create a written standard, updating the written standards 
already in place, or other technical and procedural documentation, such as SOPs, checklists, 
guides, etc. for issues where no guidance exists and to maximize process efficiencies by 
coordinating with the NetMOD Network Standards Team, ensuring that official standards are 
maintained and distributed at the enteprise level.   
 
In coordination with and approved by the NetMOD Branch Leadership, create, develop, 
implement, update, enforce, maintain, and monitor/surveil a Change Enablement Framework, 
such as an enterprise level change management and change control process for all network 
infrastructure scoped within this requirement.  Utilize this process to test, validate, submit, and 
secure approval to implement and deploy changes within the production environment, as 
required by policy and in support of the requirements set by the ATO process for all systems and 
accreditation boundaries. 
 
Coordinate and follow DHA processes, standards, policies, and procedures for network 
management.  
 
Manage Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) Incident Management ticket 
queues. Resolve customer issues, responding to specialized and/or high impact issues on a 
priority basis and document efforts in the IT system. Perform monthly trend analysis and run 
ticket queries as necessary to ensure Change Request assessments are completed within 24 hours 
prior to the scheduled change, or no later than 24 hours after an unscheduled change.  Ensure 
that, using the DHAs Ticketing system, all official tickets, tasks, and workload (including 
tracking of time per ticket/task) are accurately and properly documented, and resolve any 
difficiencies within the same reporting period. 
 
Communicate effectively both orally and written with customers, stakeholders, and technical 
specialists. As required, work directly with customers to resolve issues. Effectively lead detailed 
technical discussions and develop and present required briefing materials to ensure the 
customer’s needs are met in accordance with DoD, military Service branches, and DHA 
requirements. Participate in technical working groups strategizing for future requirements and 
propose enhancements based on business needs.   
 
5.3 Labor Category Responsibilities and Required Qualifications 
 
JOB TITLE: Referral Network Engineer: 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES: The Referral Network Engineer ensures that the LAN/WAN is capable of 
providing required services by supporting the network infrastructure through the use of 
troubleshooting and problem resolution in a production environment. Provides daily operational 
and sustainment support for all DHA deployed LAN/WLAN/WAN networks within all DHA 
Activities. Plans, installs and supports hardware and software upgrades, oversees and/or 
implements all changes to the enterprise in accordance with approved LAN/WLAN/WAN 
Network Standards. 
36 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
The Referral Network Engineer is required to resolve technical issues associated with network 
and routing protocols at all levels of the OSI model through the use of diagnostics and network 
administration tools such as Orion SolarWinds, ARMIS, and Ansible. An understanding of 
Management Information Blocks (MIB) and MRTG type tools used to measure, plan and execute 
methodologies to ensure high performance levels and minimum downtime. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Referral Network Engineer must be capable of 
establishing and configuring network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Uses diagnostic utilities to identify and isolate problems encountered on different mediums and 
network protocols, gather latency statistics and find specific network bottlenecks, evaluate 
problems and implement fix actions through device reconfiguration or replacement depending on 
the circumstances. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS: Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 8140.01 
“CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 “IDENTIFICATION, 
TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE REQUIREMENTS” is 
required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the Network Operations 
Specialist “Intermediate”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification Program 
Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
EXPERIENCE: The Referral Network Specialist must have a clear understanding and proficient 
in the normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, HTTPS, 
SMTP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), EIGRP, 
BGP, OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), V.35, RS-
449 and a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 802.11, 
802.3u, 803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. Additionally, the 
candidate must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with synchronous and 
asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, ATM, and other 
communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with various Optical Time 
Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and EIA/TIA cable standards and 
specifications are also required. 
 
Possess experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that operate such items as 
current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, UNIX and OpenVMS 
and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local and long-haul WAN 
connectivity. 
 
EDUCATION: Bachelor’s degree in a technical discipline such as Computer Sciences and five 
(5) years related experience; or successful completion of a certified technical/vocational school 
and eight (8) years related experience. 
 
37 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
OTHER SKILLS: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is highly 
recommended. Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks 
directly related to the proposed area of responsibility. Expertise in Windows networks, Cisco 
Systems, and Orion SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is 
desired; Has one or more of the following certifications aligned with the enterprise deployed 
network architectures: Security+ and Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) or equivalent 
(i.e., BCNE for Brocade, etc.). 
 
BACKGROUND: An Automated Data Processing (ADP) sensitivity level determination is 
required for this position. 
 
VERBAL & WRITTEN COMMUNICATION SKILLS: Must be able to communicate 
effectively with a broad audience to include Government officials, medical professionals and 
highly specialized technical personnel, both verbally and in writing. 
 
JOB TITLE: Network Engineer Associate: 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES: The Network Engineer Associate ensures that the LAN/WAN is capable 
of providing required services by supporting the network infrastructure through the use of 
troubleshooting and problem resolution in a production environment. Provides daily operational 
and sustainment support for all DHA deployed LAN/WLAN/WAN networks within all DHA 
Activities under their pervue. Coodinates with Network Specialists to plan, install and support 
hardware and software upgrades. Recieves direction from either the Regional Senior Network 
Engineer and/or the Referral Network Engineer and oversees or implements all changes to the 
network in accordance with approved LAN/WLAN/WAN Network Standards. 
 
The Network Engineer Associate ensures that the LAN/WAN is capable of providing required 
services by supporting the network infrastructure through the use of troubleshooting and problem 
resolution in a production environment. Provides daily operational and sustainment support for 
all DHA deployed LAN/WLAN/WAN networks within all DHA Activities under their pervue. 
Coodinates with Network Specialists to plan, install and support hardware and software 
upgrades.  Recieves direction from either the Regional Senior Network Engineer and or the 
Referral Network Engineer and oversees or implements all changes to the network in accordance 
with approved LAN/WLAN/WAN Network Standards. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Network Engineer Associate must be capable 
of confering with and taking direction from both the Referral Network Engineer and/or the 
Regional Senior Engineer to establish and configure network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Uses diagnostic utilities to identify and isolate problems encountered on different mediums and 
network protocols, gather latency statistics and find specific network bottlenecks, evaluate 
problems and implement fix actions through device reconfiguration or replacement depending on 
the circumstances. 
 
38 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
QUALIFICATIONS:  Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 8140.01 
“CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 “IDENTIFICATION, 
TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE REQUIREMENTS” is 
required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the Network Operations 
Specialist “Intermediate”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification Program 
Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
EXPERIENCE:  The Network Engineer Associate must have a clear understanding and 
proficient in the normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, 
HTTPS, SMTP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), 
EIGRP, BGP, OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), 
V.35, RS-449 and a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 
802.11, 802.3u, 803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. 
Additionally, the candidate must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with 
synchronous and asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 
FDDI, ATM, and other communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with 
various Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and 
EIA/TIA cable standards and specifications are also required. 
 
Possess experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that operate such items as 
current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, UNIX and OpenVMS 
and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local and long-haul WAN 
connectivity. 
 
EDUCATION: Bachelor’s degree in a technical discipline such as Computer Sciences and three 
(3) years related experience; or successful completion of a certified technical/vocational school 
and five (5) years related experience. 
 
OTHER SKILLS: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is highly 
recommended. Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks 
directly related to the proposed area of responsibility. Highly proficient in Windows networks, 
Cisco Systems, and Orion SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and 
Methodologies is desired; Has one or more of the following certifications aligned with the 
enterprise deployed network architectures: Security+ and Cisco Certified Network Associate 
(CCNA) or equivalent (i.e., BCNE for Brocade, etc.). 
 
BACKGROUND: An Automated Data Processing (ADP) sensitivity level determination is 
required for this position. 
 
VERBAL & WRITTEN COMMUNICATION SKILLS: Must have strong oral and written 
communications skills to effectively present information to a broad audience of Government 
officials, medical professionals, and highly specialized technical personnel. 
 
JOB TITLE: Network Specialist 
 
39 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
RESPONSIBILITIES: The Network Specialist ensures that the LAN/WAN is capable of 
providing required services by supporting the network infrastructure through the use of 
troubleshooting and problem resolution in a production environment. Provides daily operational 
and sustainment support for all DHA deployed LAN/WLAN/WAN networks within the DHA 
Activities under the Network Specialists prevue. Coordinates with Network Engineer Associate 
or Referral Network Engineer to plan, install and support hardware and software upgrades.  
Receives direction from either the Referral Network Engineer and/or the Network Engineer 
Associate and implements all changes to the network in accordance with approved 
LAN/WLAN/WAN Network Standards. 
 
The Network Specialist is required to resolve technical issues associated with network and 
routing protocols at all levels of the OSI model through the use of diagnostics and network 
administration tools such as Orion SolarWinds, ARMIS, and Ansible. An understanding of 
Management Information Blocks (MIB) and MRTG type tools used to measure, plan and execute 
methodologies to ensure high performance levels and minimum downtime. 
 
Responsible for the increasing levels of LAN/WLAN/WAN security in maintaining the 
LAN/WLAN – WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to MTF 
systems. In order to meet these requirements, the Network Specialist must be capable of 
confering with and taking direction from both the Referral Network Engineer and/or the Network 
Engineer Associate to establish and configure network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs. 
 
Uses diagnostic utilities to identify and isolate problems encountered on different mediums and 
network protocols, gather latency statistics and find specific network bottlenecks, evaluate 
problems and implement fix actions through device reconfiguration or replacement depending on 
the circumstances. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS: Compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive DoDD 8140.01 
“CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT” and DoDI 8140.02 “IDENTIFICATION, 
TRACKING, AND REPORTING OF CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE REQUIREMENTS” is 
required. Must have and maintain certification(s) compliant with the Network Operations 
Specialist “Intermediate”, per DoD 8140, “Cyber Workforce Qualification Program 
Qualification Matrix and Training Repository”. 
 
EXPERIENCE: The Network Specialist must have a clear understanding and proficient in the 
normal networking protocols and technologies, such as TCP/IP, XDM, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, 
SNMP, DNS, DHCP, RSTP, VRRP, Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), EIGRP, BGP, 
OSPF, Point to Point Protocol (PPP), High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), V.35, RS-449 and 
a clear understanding of the 802.1d, 802.1q, 802.1w, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 802.11, 802.3u, 
803.2, and 802.3z communications and Internet standards is required. Additionally, the candidate 
must demonstrate a clear understanding and direct experience with synchronous and 
asynchronous communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, ATM, and other 
communications medium in use by the DoD and DHA. Experience with various Optical Time 
Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), cable testers, network sniffers and EIA/TIA cable standards and 
specifications are also required. 
 
40 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Possess experience in routed, switched and shared LAN environments that operate such items as 
current supported versions of Microsoft OS, Windows Active Directory, UNIX and OpenVMS 
and employ routers, switches, and terminal servers as well as various local and long-haul WAN 
connectivity. 
 
EDUCATION: Bachelor’s degree in a technical discipline such as Computer Sciences and two 
(2) years related experience; or successful completion of a certified technical/vocational school 
and three (3) years related experience. 
 
OTHER SKILLS: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is highly 
recommended. Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks 
directly related to the proposed area of responsibility. Proficient in Windows networks, Cisco 
Systems, and Orion SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is 
desired; Has one or more of the following certifications aligned with the enterprise deployed 
network architectures: Security+ and Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) or equivalent 
(i.e., BCNE for Brocade, etc.). 
 
BACKGROUND: An Automated Data Processing (ADP) sensitivity level determination is 
required for this position. 
 
VERBAL & WRITTEN COMMUNICATION SKILLS: Must have strong oral and written 
communications skills to effectively present information to a broad audience of Government 
officials, medical professionals, and highly specialized technical personnel. 
 
JOB TITLE: Systems and Network Specialist (Sembach, Germany) 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES: Provides computer systems maintenance and repair. Maintains servers, 
software systems and networks. Diagnoses and resolves hardware, software, firmware and 
network problems. Configures, maintains and upgrades network connection devices, network 
hardware/software equipment, and automation equipment. 
 
The system and network administrator performs system design for TRICARE Area Office - 
Europe systems and system components. Maintains, operates, and evaluates desktop, network 
and communications hardware and software plus the system requirements needed to keep the 
Local Area Network operational at the indicated percentages. Analyzes ongoing operation of 
Local Area Network and Wide Area Network system(s) to ensure the hardware and network 
operating software are functioning properly and operating standards are met. Troubleshoots the 
Local Area Network, the Wide Area Network, and other network related problems. Coordinates 
and collaborates with support staff of the host network and all other applicable agencies. 
Manages, maintains, and supports the development of a standard workstation configuration to be 
used across all TRICARE Area Office - Europe systems in accordance with Department of 
Defense and host network regulations. Provides Helpdesk support to on- site users, using 
available resources to successfully diagnose and resolve problems with desktop computers, 
laptops, peripherals, commonly used office applications and other information technology as 
needed. Supports other telecommunication systems as needed, such as telephones, video 
teleconference systems, etc. 
41 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
QUALIFICATIONS: Must have a clear understanding of TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, HTTP, SHTTP, 
SMTP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, EIGRP, OSPF, PPP, HDLC, V.35, RS-449 and knowledge of the 
803.2, 802.3, 802.5, 802.10, 802.11, 802.3u and 802.3z communications, EIA/TIA cable 
standards and Internet standards. Must address issues related to synchronous and asynchronous 
communications, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, ATM, ISDN, 
microwave and satellite communications. Required experience with various cable testers and 
network sniffers. 
 
EXPERIENCE: Possesses understanding of routed, switched and shared LAN environments that 
operate Microsoft Windows NT/2000, UNIX and OpenVMS and employ various routers 
switches, hubs and terminal servers as well as various local and long-haul ISDN,56 Kbps 
through T1 - T3 (European E1 – E3 experience desired), satellite and ATM WAN connectivity 
that employs Codex and PairGain CSU/DSUs. 
 
EDUCATION: Bachelor’s degree or related technical training in computer science, engineering 
or information management, or five (5) years related experience and technical certification. 
 
OTHER SKILLS: Experience with DoD Health Care Information Systems is highly 
recommended. Experience and skills shall include a range of assignments in technical tasks 
directly related to the proposed area of responsibility. Proficient in Windows networks, Cisco 
Systems, and Orion SolarWinds. Experience with Zero Trust Architectures and Methodologies is 
desired; Has one or more of the following certifications aligned with the enterprise deployed 
network architectures: Security+ and Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) or equivalent 
(i.e., BCNE for Brocade, etc.). 
 
BACKGROUND: An Automated Data Processing (ADP) sensitivity level determination may be 
required for this position. 
 
VERBAL & WRITTEN COMMUNICATION SKILLS: Must have strong oral and written 
communications skills to effectively present information to a broad audience of Government 
officials, medical professionals, and highly specialized technical personnel. 
 
5.3.1 When using education/certification in conjunction with labor categories, the COR in 
coordination with the CO must establish a review process of contractor personnel to ensure labor 
category requirements are met. 
 
42 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 6 
6.0 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & SECURITY 
 
6.1  All work under this contract is considered unclassified. The security requirements are in 
accordance with the DD Form 254. Key Personnel are required to have and maintain a Secret 
Clearance. An executed DD254 are required to be part of the contract.   
 
6.2  The TIER 1 or TIER 2 levels and position sensitivity designation for positions under this 
contract is: (Requirement must be checked in order to be a requirement for this PWS.)  
 
6.2.1  TIER I:  Critical sensitive position  
 
6.3  Personally Identifiable Information (PII)/Protected Health Information (PHI), Procurement, 
and Federal information requirements:  Contractor shall comply with Federal Information 
Requirements for Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Public Health Information 
(PHI).  Refer to Clause Section for DHA Procedures, Guidance, and Information Part 24 – 
Protection of Privacy and Freedom of Information PII/PHA and Federal Information 
Requirement DHA PGI 224.1-90 as applicable. 
 
6.3.1.  Data Sharing Agreements (DSAs):  Contractors requiring access to PII, which includes 
PHI, or access to de-identified data, are subject to the DHA Privacy and Civil Liberties Office 
(DPCLO) (Privacy Office) Data Sharing Program.  This program requires DHA to enter into 
DSAs with parties outside the MHS who use or create MHS data.  A DHA contract may use the 
term Data Use Agreement (DUA) rather than DSA.  DSAs assure that outside parties protect 
MHS data in accordance with the Privacy Act and the HIPAA Rules.  To apply for a DSA, the 
contractor submits a Data Sharing Agreement Application (DSAA) to the DHA DPCLO.  The 
contractor submits the DSAA even if a subcontractor will be the party accessing MHS data.  
After review and approval of the DSAA, the Privacy Office provides a DSA to the contractor for 
execution. 
 
6.3.2.  Processing Procurement Sensitive Information:  All individuals shall seek guidance from 
the CO regarding the coordination of documents, dissemination, and transmission of 
procurement sensitive information.  Procurement sensitive information shall not be transmitted 
electronically unless encryption is utilized.  Depending on a particular procurement, other 
restrictions may apply.   
 
6.4  Training 
 
6.4.1  Contractor employees performing cybersecurity/cyberspace functions shall comply with 
the following requirements:  
 
6.4.1.1  Training:  All contractor and associated subcontractor employees working Cybersecurity 
Information Assurance (IA)/Cyberspace functions must comply with DoD training requirements 
in Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8140.01 and DoD 8570.01-M. Contractors shall 
identify, document, track, and report qualifications of contract support personnel who perform 
cyberspace work roles. 
43 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
6.4.1.2  Certification:  The contractor shall ensure that personnel accessing IS have the proper 
and current IA certification to perform IA functions at contract award in accordance with DoD 
8570.01–M, IA Workforce Improvement Program.  The contractor shall meet the applicable IA 
certification requirements as outlined in DFARS 252.239-2001, including: 
 
6.4.1.2.1  DoD-approved IA workforce certifications appropriate for each category and level as 
listed in the current version of DoD 8570.01–M; and 
 
6.4.1.2.2  Appropriate operating system certification for IA technical positions as required by 
DoD 8570.01–M. 
 
6.4.1.2.2.1  Upon request by the Government, the contractor shall provide documentation 
supporting the IA certification status of personnel performing IA functions. 
 
6.4.1.2.2.2  Contractor personnel who do not have proper and current certifications shall be 
denied access to DoD IS for the purpose of performing IA functions. 
 
6.4.2  User requirements:  All contractor employees that require access to DHA IT must comply 
with the requirements of DHA-Procedural Instruction 8140.01, Acceptable Use of DHA IT, to 
include those contract employees with privileged access. 
 
6.5  Cybersecurity Requirements for Non-DoD IT or Covered Contractor IS:   
 
RESERVED 
 
6.6  Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD IT:    All IS, Platform Information 
Technology (PIT) and IT Services or Products under this requirement, that receive, transmit, 
store, or process nonpublic government data must be accredited in accordance with DoDI 
8510.01, Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD IT and comply with annual Federal 
Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) security control testing.  IS and PIT systems 
must be categorized in accordance with Committee on National Security Systems Instruction 
(CNSSI) 1253, implement a corresponding set of security controls from the NIST SP 800-53, 
and use assessment procedures from NIST SP 800-53A with additional DoD-specific assignment 
values, overlays, implementation guidance, and assessment procedures as required.  
 
6.6.1  All systems subject to RMF must present evidence of authorization in the System Security 
Plan, Security Assessment Report) a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) and authorization 
decision document or show that the system has a DoD RMF or equivalent DoD Component PIT 
system accreditation decision that is current within 3 years within 5 business days of CO request.  
Evidence of FISMA compliance must be presented in the form of a POA&M.  Systems must 
have and maintain an Authority to Operate (ATO) or Authority to Operate with Conditions 
(ATO-C) by contract award.  
 
44 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
6.6.2  The contractor shall implement security controls in accordance with NIST implementation 
and validation requirements specified in the NIST SP 800-37 Risk Management Framework 
(RMF) and DoDI 8510.01, Risk Management Framework (RMF). 
 
6.6.3  The contractor shall configure the information system in accordance with Defense 
Information Agency (DISA) Security Requirements Guides (SRGs) and security technical 
implementation guides (STIGs). 
 
6.6.4  The contractor shall ensure that the information system conforms to the requirements of 
DoDI 8551.01 “Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM)”. 
 
6.6.5  The contractor shall ensure that the information system shall authenticate all entities as 
specified in DoDI 8520.03 “Identity Authentication for Information Systems” prior to granting 
access. 
 
6.6.6  The contractor shall Public Key (PK) enable the information system, implementing digital 
signature and encryption requirements specified in DoDI 8520.02, “Public Key Infrastructure 
(PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling”. 
 
6.6.7  The contractor will be responsible for compliance with the Joint Force Head Quarters – 
Department of Defense Information Network issuances and IA Vulnerability Management 
(IAVM) issuances by ensuring that the issuances are assessed, implemented and maintained 
throughout development and sustainment in accordance with specified timelines.  
 
6.6.8  The contractor shall support reciprocity, by providing all directed information in NIST 
security documents to the government.  
 
6.6.9  The contractor shall implement system level protection and detection capabilities that are 
consistent with their contract for NIST Security requirements that meet DoD and DHA 
Cybersecurity Architectures. 
 
6.6.10  Cyber Incident Reporting Requirement:  The contractor shall comply with the incident 
management requirements of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 6510.01B, 
“Cyber Incident Handling Program”. 
 
6.6.11  Information security continuous monitoring (ISCM):  ISCM is defined as maintaining 
ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to support organizational 
risk management decisions.  ISCM is a critical part of the risk management process to ensure 
that IS and PIT operations remain within an acceptable level of risk despite any changes that 
occur.  The Contractor shall maintain ongoing monitoring, analysis and incident response 
procedures for all ARRT and PIT systems under this requirement in accordance with NIST SP 
800-137.  
 
6.6.12 The contractor shall mitigate supply chain risk to the government by complying with 
DFARS 252.239-7018 and only utilizing unified capability equipment identified on the DODIN 
45 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Unified Capabilities Approved Products List (https://aplits.disa.mil/processAPList), unless 
granted a waiver in accordance with DODI 8100.04, DOD Unified Capabilities (UC).  
 
6.7.  Facility Related Control Systems:   The DHA’s Facilities Enterprise (FE) Program 
Management Office (PMO) establishes the processes for acquisition, installation and sustainment 
of FRCS in DHA Facilities.  Requirements for cybersecurity of FRCS are developed and 
specified by the FHA FE FRCS PMO.  The scope of PIT and Control Systems within the DoD 
includes building control systems such as Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning, Utility 
Management Control System, Electronic Security Systems, Fire Alarm Systems, and other 
assets.  The application of IT cybersecurity strategies is migrating into PIT and Control Systems 
in response to emerging threats.  The requirements within this scope apply to all versions of 
Design-Build (DB); Design-Bid-Build (DBB); and facilities Sustainment, Restoration and 
Modernization (SRM) projects as well as Initial Outfitting (IO) requirements activities. 
 
6.7.1  Applicability:  Contractors shall agree to the DHA Cybersecurity requirements as outlined 
for those project-specific FRCS Systems selected from Military Standard (MIL-STD) 1691, 
(https://home.facilities.health.mil/military-standard-milstd-1691-equipment
) and identified in the 
DBB design process, D-B RFP development, SRM procurement documentation, or IO 
requirements unless an exception has been granted for a system by the Government prior to 
project award or procurement order issuance. 
 
6.7.2  Cybersecurity Design:  Failure to meet the design requirements may result in 
Government non-acceptance of submittals or termination of the procurement delivery order for 
cause, in accordance with project documentation and FAR 52.212-4(m). 
 
6.7.2.1  The contractor shall comply with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-010-06 
Cybersecurity of Facility-Related Control Systems, UFGS 25-05-11 Cyber Security for Facility-
Related Control Systems, and referenced standards to develop a Cybersecurity program for their 
FRCS products to be installed in DoD facilities.  The UFC system is prescribed by MIL-STD 
3007 and provides planning, design, construction, sustainment, restoration, and modernization 
criteria, and applies to the Military Departments, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field 
Activities in accordance with Under Secretary of Defense Acquisition, Technologies, and 
Logistics Memorandum dated 29 May 2002.  UFC will be used for all DoD projects and work 
for other customers where appropriate. 
 
6.7.2.2  Contractors shall comply with the National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) 
Common Criteria Cybersecurity Evaluation and Validation Scheme (CCEVS) evaluation 
(https://www.niap-ccevs.org
) which is published on the NIAP-CCEVS Products Compliance 
List.  The NIAP-certified products have been assessed from a security perspective, helping to 
reduce the existence of potential vulnerabilities.  Contractors are required to continually maintain 
their products, mitigate vulnerabilities, and distribute fixes to licensed users. 
 
6.7.2.3  The contractor agrees to comply with security regulations and guidance listed in 
Attachment 3, Cybersecurity Regulations and Guidance, and all RMF requirements.  The 
contractor shall establish appropriate administrative and technical safeguards to ensure the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Government data under their control. 
46 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
6.7.3  Funding of FRCS System/Device Requirements:  Projects requiring new or replacement 
FRCS, or upgrade/extension of existing devices/systems, employ either SRM, DB, or DBB 
acquisition strategies.  Many FRCS are categorized as Real Property and are project funded.  
Others are categorized through Military Standard 1691 as Personal Property (PP) requiring IO 
funding.  The IO effort should preferably, and where feasible, be embedded in the SRM, DBB or 
DB contract through Contract Line Items or another vehicle.  This will optimize coordination of 
project-funded infrastructure design/construction with FRCS device/system design, installation, 
testing and commissioning.  Where the project delivery team (PDT) determines that acquisition 
of PP devices/systems will be through IO action entirely separate to the SRM, DBB, or DB 
contract, the same RMF-related activities are required.  These activities shall be fully integrated 
into the project master schedule. 
 
6.7.3.1  Pricing for Cybersecurity:  If there are any additional costs associated with any element 
of the Cybersecurity lifecycle including a test/laboratory environment, the Contractor shall 
provide those costs as follows:  
 
6.7.3.1.1  All costs to assist the Government to achieve a new ATO and maintain it during the 
equipment’s warranty shall be included in the initial quote/offer price for SRM, and in the 
proposal for DB/DBB projects. 
 
6.7.4  FRCS Cybersecurity Requirements:  The contractor shall provide a POC responsible for 
the cybersecurity of the contractor device or system, throughout the lifecycle of the product. The 
contractor shall provide Subject Matter Experts to support all assessments of contracted products 
and materials. 
 
6.7.4.1  The contractor shall establish and utilize a test/laboratory environment that duplicates all 
contractor fielded equipment/product that falls within the FRCS system/device authorization 
boundary.  The contractor shall ensure that all fielded equipment/product is maintained during 
the construction/installation period of performance, and for fifteen (15) years post acceptance or 
as long as the contractor commercially supports the equipment/product, whichever is longer.  
 
6.7.4.2  The contractor’s test/laboratory environment shall be used to submit to the Government, 
either through the RFP response, procurement order offer/quote, or construction submittal 
process, with all sections of the FRCS Risk Assessment Questionnaire and a Nessus vulnerability 
assessment report. 
 
6.7.4.3  Contractors must provide a fully credentialed Nessus scan of the laboratory environment 
utilizing the DoD policy template with the submission.  In addition, Nessus scans shall be 
provided within ten (10) days of a request from the Government POC to ensure a continuous 
monitoring program.  Nessus scanner must be procured by the contractor, at their own cost, in 
order to comply with RMF requirements.  The contractor shall request the latest versions through 
the CO. 
 
6.7.4.4  Contractors shall notify the assigned Government POC FRCS analyst of any 
updates/changes to the system and attain Government approval from the Military Treatment 
47 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Facilities (MTFs) Change Control Board prior to installation.  This should include operating 
system updates/patches; contractor application and database upgrades, updates, and patches; 
other software/firmware updates/patches; and addition/removal of components. 
 
6.7.4.5  The contractor shall comply with DoDI 8500.01 Cybersecurity, Enclosure 3, paragraph 
9.b.(11), requiring all cybersecurity products and IA-enabled products that require use of the 
product’s cybersecurity capabilities will comply with the evaluation and validation requirements 
of Committee on National Security Systems Policy 11, National Policy Governing the 
Acquisition of IA and IA-Enabled Information Technology Products, June 2013, as amended. 
 
6.7.4.6  The contractor shall comply with DoDI 8510.01, Enclosure 6, para 2.f(6)(a), ensuring 
systems must be reassessed for reauthorization prior to the Authorization Termination Date.  
Government Program Offices or appropriate facilities organizations plan for this activity.  The 
results of an annual cybersecurity review or a negative change to the system or environment at 
any time (i.e., a change increasing the residual risk) may result in a need for reauthorization prior 
to the regular three-year reauthorization. 
 
6.7.4.7  If the FRCS is Internet Protocol capable, the proposed system shall be Internet Protocol 
Version 6 (IPv6) capable or the contractor shall provide a detailed project, migration or planning 
documentation to show when the proposed system shall be IPv6 capable.  The contractor shall be 
able to demonstrate or provide documentation to prove that their product is IPv6 capable. 
 
6.7.4.7.1  Minimum IPv6 capabilities include: 
(a) Conformant with the IPv6 standards profile contained in the DoD IT Standards Registry 
(DISR);  
(b) Maintaining interoperability in heterogeneous environments with IPv4;  
(c) Commitment to upgrade as the IPv6 standard evolves;  
(d) Availability of contractor IPv6 technical support.  
 
6.7.4.8  The contractor shall notify the Government POC and CO POCs in writing with any 
inabilities to comply with DoD security requirements.  The contractor will provide anticipated 
costs and timelines required to address any vulnerabilities in question. 
 
6.7.5  Post Award Requirements:  Contractor provided network infrastructure components (e.g. 
switches, routers, etc.) shall be standardized to the existing MTF network infrastructure where 
possible and shall be listed on the DoD Information Network Approved Products List (APL) 
(https://aplits.disa.mil
).  Operating systems and firmware shall be the most current government 
approved version approved for infrastructure components, workstations, and servers. 
 
6.7.5.1  As technology requirements change and compliance requirements transition, the 
contractor shall maintain their solution and incorporate new system/device capabilities and 
requirements into their proposed design.  Contractors should at a minimum provide 
documentation that details what changes/requirements cannot apply to the current version and 
provide a schedule when the capabilities will be incorporated into future versions to ensure 
continued compliance and functionality. 
 
48 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
6.7.5.2  The contractor’s installed device or system shall pass pre-validation technical screening 
including fully-credentialed vulnerability scans utilizing Nessus, Security Content Automation 
Protocol scans, and STIGs checklists within 6 months of construction submittal acceptance, or 
procurement contract award, and prior to related commissioning activity or acceptance testing.  
All resulting documentation will be provided by the contractor to the Government POC for 
review.  The contractor shall mitigate or remediate all Very High, High, and Moderate severity 
vulnerabilities discovered during the RMF Assessment process according to the associated 
POA&M. 
  
6.7.5.2.1  Successful pre-validation technical screening must meet the Cybersecurity criteria 
listed below: 
 
(a) No unmitigated Very High or High severity, vulnerabilities as described in the appropriate 
DISA STIGs located on https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/
. 
(b) No unmitigated Moderate severity, vulnerabilities described in the appropriate DISA STIGs 
located on https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/
. 
(c) No unmitigated Very High or High severity vulnerabilities from Nessus vulnerability scans. 
(d) No unmitigated Moderate severity vulnerabilities from Nessus vulnerability scans. 
 
6.7.5.2.2  The contractor will provide the following documentation on their system/device: 
 
(a) Manufacturer name/model, version, and functionality description 
(b) Product specifications 
(c) Technology Architecture Diagram (System topology)  
(d) Provide Hardware, Software, and Firmware Inventory 
(e) Provide Ports Protocols and Services that are required for System functionality 
(f) Provide a data flow diagram with detailed topology (include any required interfaces to other 
Systems) 
(g) Complete a DD Form 2930, Privacy Impact Assessment 
 
6.7.5.3  In DBB and DB contracts, the contractor shall submit requests for the templates and any 
additional technical documentation through the standard RFI process.  Completed documents 
shall be provided to the Government though the standard Submittal process for Government 
Approval.  For SRM projects and IO requirements, the contractor shall submit a request for the 
templates and any technical documentation within twenty (20) days of contract award.  The 
required schedule for requests and responses is identified in the timeframes below for each 
acquisition strategy.  Attachment 4, FRCS Responsibility Matrix, provides a Responsibility 
Matrix overview of the project roles and responsibilities. 
 
6.7.5.4  For all devices/systems requiring an ATO: 
(a) For SRM projects and IO requirements, the contractor shall not make any delivery and 
shall not receive payment for the until the Government POC has approved the self-
assessment of the test/laboratory environment.  The contractor must receive written 
confirmation from the CO that the system/device has successfully completed a self-
assessment and that the contractor may proceed with delivery.  Delivery may take place 
prior to this milestone only if written permission is provided by the CO. 
49 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
(b) For DBB and DB MILCON-funded FRCS, the contractor proceeds at his own risk if the 
contractor has not received Government approval that the system/device has successfully 
completed a self-assessment.  Once the system/device has been installed, commissioning 
or acceptance testing shall not proceed until the Government POC, with contractor 
support and mitigation, has completed a successful self-assessment of the installation, 
and the Independent Verification & Validation (IV&V) has been scheduled (if required).  
An IV&V cannot be scheduled until all documentation requirements and technical 
requirements have been completed to the Government POC’s satisfaction.  Additionally, 
all required POA&Ms must have been identified, and been appropriately mitigated to 
reduce the risk to the Government network and PHI/PII/For Official Use Only data 
housed within the system.  
 
6.7.5.5  A contractor’s technical solution that requires an Assessment and Authorization shall be 
able obtains a recommendation of ATO from a Government-appointed third-party validator 
within twelve (12) months of the successful installation self-assessment.   
 
6.7.6  Cybersecurity Assessment:  The contractor’s solutions shall be configured to allow 
Endpoint protection, allow unattended credentialed scans, and allow patching without contractor 
intervention. 
 
6.7.6.1  The contractor solution shall comply with DoD Instruction 8582.01, “Security of Non-
DoD Information Systems Processing Unclassified NonPublic DoD Information.  Devices and 
systems must be configured in such a way that allows the updating of malware definition 
signatures on a scheduled basis.  Scanning shall encompass the entire system (file system, 
operating system, and real-time processes) by default.  In cases where scanning of the entire 
system may negatively affect its operation, the contractor shall provide a detailed list of 
exclusions with justifications.  The contractor shall provide technical specifications that clearly 
demonstrate whether the proposed solution can integrate and support either the full security suite 
or the individual components (e.g. Data Loss Prevention, Intrusion Prevention System, Antivirus, 
etc.) without performance degradation of the contractor device or system.  In cases where the 
operation of security applications is not technically achievable, the contractor shall provide 
detailed justification and a POA&M describing steps towards mitigations or compliance with this 
requirement.  
 
6.7.6.2   The contractor shall ensure that the selected FRCS system/device is capable of 
supporting configuration control allowing the FRCS to be fully managed and controlled at a local 
level, without contractor or manufacturer approval.  Specifically stating that patch management 
activities, vulnerability management, security updates, STIG hardening, etc. are able to be 
conducted without contractor intervention.  FRCS that requires contractor intervention, outside 
of an approved Business-2-Business (B2B) connection, does not meet the requirement for this 
section.  In cases where Configuration control of the system/device may negatively affect its 
operation, the contractor shall provide a detailed list of exclusions with justifications.  The 
contractor shall provide technical specifications that clearly demonstrate whether the proposed 
solution can support the Configuration control without performance degradation of the contractor 
device or System.  In cases where the operation of security applications is not technically 
50 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
achievable, the contractor shall provide detailed justification and a POA&M describing steps 
towards mitigations or compliance with this requirement 
 
6.7.6.4  The contractor shall submit all RMF-required documentation for review and approval 
per the Assessment Timeline in paragraph 6.7.7.   
 
6.7.6.5  The contractor shall obtain approval from the Government for any contractor developed 
RMF policies, plans, and procedures, prior to implementation. 
 
6.7.6.6  The contractor shall provide any additional documentation required by the Government 
for completion of the assessment process within thirty (30) business days of a request by the 
Government. 
 
6.7.6.7  The contractor shall provide technical scans per the Assessment Timeline below. 
 
6.7.6.8  The contractor shall provide updated Nessus scans within ten (10) days of a request from 
the Government POC until an ATO is granted or the product is added to the DHA FE APL. 
 
6.7.6.9  The contractor shall remediate or mitigate any findings discovered as a result of the 
Nessus scans. 
 
6.7.7.  Risk Assessment Timeframes:  Each acquisition strategy has a different cycle of design 
and procurement for FRCS which generate different schedules and timelines for RMF-related 
activities.  These timelines may also be impacted by local or programmatic requirements.  
Consequently, the schedules included in Attachment 5, Risk Assessment Timeframes are to be 
considered as templates and should be reviewed and modified where necessary by the PDT for a 
specific project, as they develop procurement documents, scopes of work, performance work 
statements, RFPs, Specifications, etc. 
 
6.7.7.1  Where the PDT determines that acquisition of PP devices/Systems will be through IO 
action entirely separate to the SRM, DBB, or DB contract, the same RMF-related activities are 
required.  These activities in Part 8 shall be fully integrated into the project master schedule. 
 
6.7.8  Warranty and Post-Warranty Service Maintenance Agreement:  The contractor shall 
maintain all equipment/product versions provided pursuant to the construction or other 
procurement contract, to include the supported operating system, by issuing patches/updates to 
mitigate vulnerabilities [e.g., IAVA or IA Vulnerability Bulletins (IAVB)] and network security 
configurations [e.g., Defense Information System Agency (DISA) STIGs].  The contractor must 
adhere to DHA guidance for remediation or mitigation of vulnerabilities associated with the 
equipment/product. 
 
6.7.8.1  Contractors shall be responsible for providing cybersecurity maintenance support for as 
long as the contractor commercially supports the system/device or fifteen (15) years after end of 
sale date of the equipment provided by the contractor.  If required, the contractor shall use the 
Government-approved method for remote access administration (DHA B2B) of the system or 
device. 
51 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
6.7.8.2  Pursuant to warranty periods and Service Maintenance Agreements (SMAs), the 
contractor shall, after the issuance of an ATO or APL approval, ensure that the contractor’s 
device or system maintains its ATO or operating system platform and patches/updates for as long 
as the contractor commercially supports the system/device or fifteen (15) years after end of sale 
date of the equipment provided by the contractor. 
 
6.7.8.3  The contractor shall maintain an ATO or APL approval on all equipment/product 
versions owned by the HA) and Services and originally purchased through the contractor’s 
contract.  If a contractor cannot support the ATO or APL approval for all DHA/Service owned 
versions of the equipment/product, the contractor can meet this requirement by offering to 
provide all upgrades to the equipment/product that are required to maintain the ATO or APL 
approval, either at no cost to the Government or at a fixed price that is included in a RMF only 
maintenance offering under the contractors contract.  During the period of time the contractor 
has a product installed on the network, the contractor shall provide all required cybersecurity 
patches/updates.  Maintaining the RMF ATO or APL approval shall be included as part of the 
contractor’s warranty period.  For updates/patches, executable files should be distributed by the 
manufacturer accordingly, or implemented by the manufacturer’s technical staff, dependent on 
the Service Agreement processes. 
 
6.7.8.4  The contractor shall notify the PMO and Contracting Officer POCs in writing with any 
inabilities to comply with DoD security maintenance requirements.  Contractor will provide 
anticipated costs and timelines required to address any vulnerabilities in question. 
 
6.7.9  Cybersecurity Requirements/Continuous Monitoring/Risk Management 
 
6.7.9.1  Utilizing a test/laboratory environment, the contractor shall be able to duplicate all 
fielded equipment/product that falls under the authorization boundary.  The contractor shall 
maintain the system or device in an operational condition with the latest security patches 
installed. 
 
6.7.9.2  The contractor shall ensure that all fielded equipment/product falling under one 
authorization is tested to maintain the ATO or approved.  For each version owned by DHA and 
originally purchased through the contractor’s contract, the contractor will ensure that each 
component within the authorization boundary is represented in the test/laboratory group.   
 
6.7.9.3  The contractor shall continually monitor the authorized security configuration and notify 
the government within forty-eight (48) continuous hours of any new vulnerabilities discovered 
either in the laboratory or production environments.   
 
6.7.9.4  The contractor shall test all IAVAs, patches, updates, and upgrades in the test/laboratory 
environment before implementing in a production environment.  All production environment 
IAVAs, patches, updates, and upgrades will be approved by the MTF’s Change Control Board 
prior to contractor implementation.  Approved changes shall be implemented on a quarterly 
basis. 
 
52 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
6.7.9.5  The contractor shall review all required policies, plans, and procedures documentation 
on an annual basis and submit changes to Government for approval.   
 
6.7.9.6  The contractor shall ensure the contractor’s device or system is in compliance with the 
DoD IAVM program upon each additional deployment. 
 
6.7.9.7  The contractor shall monitor the public DoD Cyber Exchange website for new or 
updated STIGs.  The contractor shall implement updated STIG compliance for systems or 
devices within three (3) months of their availability on the DoD Cyber Exchange. 
 
6.7.9.8  A major upgrade such as major software or hardware revision must be reassessed for 
ATO or addition to the APL.  Minor upgrades must be assessed by the Government to determine 
if a reauthorization is required.  The contractor shall support reauthorizations due to both major 
and minor upgrades. 
 
6.7.9.9  The contractor shall update all ATO or approved products required supporting 
documentation in the event of a system policy, procedural, logical or technical changes to the 
system or device. 
 
6.7.9.10  The contractor shall provide vulnerability and configuration scan results of the 
test/laboratory environment to the Government on a quarterly basis.  The contractor shall provide 
raw scan results and administrative reports no later than ten (10) calendar days after a request 
from the Government POC. 
 
6.7.9.11  The contractor shall close all discovered vulnerabilities within three (3) months of 
discovery or provide a POA&M describing how they will work to close the vulnerability. 
 
6.7.9.12  The contractor shall submit to the Government for approval, all mitigation plans that 
address any open vulnerabilities. 
 
6.7.9.13  The contractor shall ensure any new deployment (including rebuilds) deploy with a 
fully patched, accredited version maintained in a lab environment. 
 
6.7.9.14  The contractor shall make the test/laboratory system available for periodic security 
reviews, within forty-five (45) business days of notification by Government.  The contractor 
shall perform monthly vulnerability scans using the most recent and updated version of approved 
DoD scan tools. 
 
6.8.  System Communications 
 
RESERVED 
 
6.9  MHS Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) Medical Community of Interest (MedCOI) Business-
to-Business (B2B) Gateway 
 
53 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
6.9.1  If there is an external system connection to a DoD IS required, then the contractor shall, in 
accordance with contract requirements, connect to the DHA B2B Gateway via a contractor 
procured Internet Service Provider (ISP) connection. 
 
6.9.2  The contractor shall assume all responsibilities for establishing and maintaining their 
connectivity to the B2B Gateway.  This shall include acquiring and maintaining the circuit used 
to connect to the B2B Gateway and the acquisition of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) device 
maintenance agreement and license compatible with the MHS VPN device.  The list of 
compatible devices are detailed in the DHA B2B/MedCOI Gateway questionnaire. 
 
6.9.3  The contractor shall submit a completed current version of the DHA B2B Gateway 
questionnaire to their Contracting Officer or COR within 10 calendar days after new 
requirements have been provided to the contractor. 
 
6.9.4  The contractor shall provide information specific to their connectivity requirements, 
proposed path for the connection and last mile diagram. 
 
6.10  Contractor Provided IT Infrastructure 
 
6.10.1  Platforms shall support HyperText Transfer (Transport) Protocol (HTTP), HyperText 
Transfer (Transport) Protocol Secure (HTTPS), web-derived Java Applets, and Secure File 
Transfer Protocols (SFTPs) (e.g., STFP, Secure Socket Layer/Transport Layer Security), and all 
software that the contractor proposes to use to interconnect with DoD facilities. 
 
6.10.2  The contractor shall configure their networks to support access to Government systems 
(e.g., configure ports and protocols for access). 
 
6.10.3  The contractor shall provide full time connections to a TIER 1 or TIER 2 ISP.  Dial-up 
ISP connections are not acceptable.  All IP addresses need to be publicly routable.  Private 
address space using Network Address Translation will not be permitted. 
 
6.10.4  The contractor shall maintain a valid maintenance contract and pertinent licenses for all 
devices connecting to the MHS B2B Gateway. 
 
6.11  System Authorization Access Request (SAAR), Defense Department (DD) Form 2875 
 
6.11.1  The contractor shall submit the most current version of DD Form 2875, “System 
Authorization Access Request (SAAR), in accordance with CO guidance for all contractors that 
use the DoD Gateways to access Government IT systems and/or DoD applications shall.  A DD 
Form 2875 shall be completed for each contractor employee who will access any system and/or 
application on a DoD network.  The DD Form 2875 shall clearly specify the system and/or 
application name and justification for access to that system and/or application.  
 
6.11.2  The contractor shall submit the completed DD Form 2875 to the DHA IT Security for 
verification of Tier I or Tier II Designation.  The DHA Personnel Security will verify that the 
contractor employee has the appropriate background investigation completed or a request for 
54 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
background investigation has been submitted to the Office of Personal Management (OPM).  
Acknowledgment from OPM that the request for a background investigation has been received 
and that an investigation has been scheduled will be verified by the DHA Personnel Security 
prior to access being approved. 
 
6.11.3  Upon approval, DHA will notify the user of the ID and password via secure/encrypted e-
mail upon the establishment of a user account.  User accounts will be established for individual 
use and may not be shared by multiple users or for system generated access to any DoD 
application.  Misuse of user accounts by individuals or contractor entities will result in 
termination of system access for the individual user account. 
 
6.11.4  The contractor shall conduct a monthly review of all contractor employees who have 
been granted access to DoD IS’/networks to verify that continued access is required 
 
6.11.5  The contractor shall provide the DHA DPCLO with a report of the findings of their 
review by the 10th day of each month following the review.  Reports identifying changes to 
contractor employee access requirements shall include the name, DoD ID number from CAC, 
Company, IS/network for which access is no longer required and the date access will be 
terminated.  
 
6.12  MHS Systems Telecommunications 
 
6.12.1  The primary communication links shall be via encrypted tunnels (i.e., Secure Internet 
Protocol (IPSEC), GetVPN, or Secure Socket Layer) between the contractor’s primary site and 
the MHS B2B Gateway. 
 
6.12.2  The contractor shall place the VPN appliance device outside the contractor’s firewalls 
and shall allow full management access to this device (e.g., in router access control lists) to allow 
Central VPN Management services provided by DHA or other source of service as designated by 
the MHS to remotely manage, configure, and support this VPN device as part of the MHS VPN 
domain. 
 
6.12.3  The contractor shall procure and configure for operation an auxiliary VPN device for 
backup purposes to minimize any downtime associated with problems of the primary VPN. 
 
6.12.4  The contractor shall send devices to the MHS VPN management authority (e.g., DHA) 
via postage paid and include prepaid return shipping arrangements for the devices(s). 
 
6.12.5  The MHS VPN management authority (e.g., DHA) will remotely configure and manage 
the VPN appliance once installed by the contractor. 
 
6.12.6  The contractor shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of contractor procured 
VPN equipment. 
 
6.12.7  The Government will be responsible for the troubleshooting of VPN equipment.   
 
55 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
6.13  Establishment of Telecommunications 
 
6.13.1  Telecommunications shall be established with the MHS through coordination with DHA.  
 
6.13.2  The contractor and DHA Program Office shall identify their requirement(s) for the 
establishment of telecommunications with the MHS and/or other Government entities. 
 
6.13.3  The DHA/MedCOI B2B Gateway Questionnaire (provided by DHA) identifies the 
required telecommunication infrastructure between the contractor and the MHS systems.  This 
includes all Wide Area Network, Local Area Network, VPN, Web DMZ, and B2B Gateway 
access requirements. 
 
6.13.4  The contractor shall complete their applicable portion of the questionnaire and shall 
return it to the DHA designated POC for review and approval.  
 
6.13.5  The contractor shall, upon Government request, provide technical experts to provide any 
clarification of information provided in the questionnaire.  DHA will review and process the 
questionnaire when it is accepted. 
 
6.13.6  DHA will coordinate any requirements for additional information with the POC and 
schedule any meetings required to review the Questionnaire.  Upon approval of the 
Questionnaire, DHA will coordinate a testing meeting with appropriate stakeholders.  
 
6.13.7  DHA will notify the contractor POC of the meeting schedule.  The purpose of the testing 
meeting is to complete a final review of the telecommunication requirements and establish 
testing dates. 
 
6.14  Contractors Located On Military Installations 
 
6.14.1  The contractor(s) shall coordinate/obtain the connections with the local MTFs/ Enhanced 
Multi-Service Markets (eMSMs) and Base/Post/Camp communication personnel located on a 
military installation who require direct access to Government systems. 
 
6.14.2  These connections will be furnished by the Government. 
 
6.14.3  Contractors located on military installations that require direct connections to their 
networks shall provide an isolated IT infrastructure.  They shall coordinate with the 
Base/Post/Camp communications personnel and the MTF/eMSM in order to get approval for a 
contractor procured circuit prior to installation to ensure the contractor is within compliance with 
the respective organizational security policies, guidance and protocols. 
 
Note: In some cases, the contractor may not be allowed to establish these connections due to 
local administrative/security requirements. 
 
6.14.4  The contractor shall be responsible for all security certification documentation as 
required to support DoD IA requirements for network interconnections.  
56 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
 
6.14.5  The contractor shall provide, on request, detailed network configuration diagrams to 
support IA accreditation requirements. 
  
6.14.6  The contractor shall comply with IA accreditation requirements.  All network traffic shall 
be via Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol using ports and protocols in accordance 
with current Service security policy. All traffic that traverses MHS and/or military Service 
Base/Post/Camp security infrastructure is subject to monitoring by security staff using Intrusion 
Detection Systems. 
 
 
 
 
DODIN Decision 
Tree_160929.pptx
 
 
  
57 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 7 
7.0 ATTACHMENTS/TECHNICAL EXHIBIT LISTING 
 
7.1  The following forms are to be completed by the FSO/Security POC, or COR once the 
contractor is granted the proper background investigation. 
 
7.1.1  Contractor CAC Request Process   
 
DHA CAC Request 
Process.pdf
DMDC TASS 
Application.xlsx
 
 
7.1.2  DHA’s contractor training instructions 
 
 
DHA FY22 Annual 
Training List_Oct 2021      
 
7.1.3  DHA’s new employee handbook 
 
DHA CAE (J-4) New 
Employee Handbook  
 
 
  
58 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 7, ATTACHMENT 1 
PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY  (PRS)  
 
The contractor service requirements are summarized into performance objectives that relate 
directly to mission essential items.  The performance threshold briefly describes the minimum 
acceptable levels of service required for each requirement.  These thresholds are critical to 
mission success. 
 
Performance Objective 
 
PWS Reference Acceptable Quality 
Level (AQL) (This is the 
maximum error rate.   
Method of 
Surveillance 
 
PRS# 1. 
The contractor shall provide 
Complete Reports. 
Reports submitted as 
required in 4.5 & 4.6 
Not more 
than 5% late 
 Monthly check 
of submission 
logs  
PRS # 2 
Provide problem diagnosis and 
resolution 
 
Responses are 
accurate, current 
and tailored to 
the individual 
needs of the 
caller and to the 
MTF 
Receive no more than 
three valid complaints 
about service during the 
month 
Customer 
Complaints  
PRS # 3  
Maintain network 
Equipment 
Equipment 
failures, non- 
availability or 
maintenance 
shall not interfere 
with MTF 
operations 
Equipment failures, non- 
availability or 
maintenance 
do not interfere with 
MTF 
operations for more than 
72 hours during a month 
Customer 
Complaints; 
Random 
Inspections  
PRS # 4  Dispose of excess 
equipment 
 
Equipment that is at the 
end of its lifecycle or is 
otherwise excess or 
unusable will be turned 
in or disposed per 
Government direction 
in a timely manner 
Excess equipment will be 
turned in or disposed of 
within 7 workdays of 
identification  
Random inspection, 
valid receipts from 
Tobyhanna or other 
disposal facilities  
PRS # 5  Satisfy 
Customer 
Semi-annual Customer 
Satisfaction Surveys 
report satisfactory or 
Better performance 
Survey results of not less 
than average of 3 on 5-
point Likert Scale for 12-
month period 
Reported to TM with 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
59 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PRS # 6  Perform 
Inventory 
Semi-annual 
inventory report 
accurately 
reflects all 
existing network 
infrastructure 
equipment and 
contains the 
information 
required by 2.2.3 
Inventory contains all 
Required information, is 
95% accurate, includes 
each site with no more 
than two sites missing 
deadline by no more than 
15 days 
Random 
inspections 
PRS # 7 Vulnerability 
Management: Patching 
Compliance Rate 
 
Percentage of network 
devices (Core 
Switches, Distro 
Switches, Edge 
Switches, Servers, etc) 
that are patched within 
the specified timeframe 
 
95% of critical patches 
applied within 48 to 72 
hours of release by DHA  
Ref: 6.7.6 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 8 Report Vulnerability 
Remediation Time 
Average time to 
remediate identified 
critical/high 
vulnerabilities 
 
Within 7 days after 
identification of 
vulnerability 
Ref: 6.7.6 
 
Reported directly to 
TM when identified, 
and when remediated 
PRS # 9  Resolve all 
High/Critical Vulnerabilities 
Number of Unresolved 
High/Critical 
Vulnerabilities 
Target is zero, or below a 
predefined threshold  
6.7.6 
Reported to TM with 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 10 Security Incident 
Management: Mean Time to 
Detect (MTTD) Security 
Incidents 
 
Average time from 
incident occurrence to 
detection 
< 30 minutes for critical 
incidents 
6.7.6 
Reported to TM with 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 11 Mean Time to 
Respond (MTTR) to Security 
Incidents 
Average time from 
detection to initial 
containment/response 
< 1 hour for critical 
incidents 
 
Reported to TM with 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 12 Mean Time to 
Resolve (MTTR) Security 
Incidents 
Average time from 
detection to full 
resolution 
 
< 4 hours for critical 
incidents  
 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 13  Report number of 
Security Incidents by severity 
Number of Security 
Incidents by severity 
Target is zero, or 
decreasing trend month 
over month 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
60 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PRS # 14 Access Control: 
Regular Access Review 
Compliance 
Percentage of user 
access reviews 
completed on schedule  
 
100% quarterly, with 
percentage complete 
reported monthly  
6.4.2 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 15 Report unauthorized 
access attempts 
Number of 
Unauthorized Access 
Attempts Blocked 
(Indicates effectiveness 
of access controls) 
 
Number of blocked 
unauthorized access 
attempts reported 
monthly 
6.4.2 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS # 16 Security Audits & 
Compliance: Perform Audits  
Audit Findings 
Remediation Rate:  
Percentage of security 
audit findings 
remediated within the 
agreed timeframe 
 
Target: 100% 
remediation within 
agreed timeframe; 
percentage of 
remediation reported 
monthly  Ref: 6.5.12 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS #17 Perform assessments 
to ensure compliance with 
Security Policies/Standards 
Regular assessments to 
ensure adherence  
100% adherence to 
defined security baseline 
configurations is 
required  
Ref: 6.5.12 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
PRS #18 Ticket Accuracy Regular and 
reoccurring 
assessments to ensure 
adherence and 
accuracy. 
Target is above 98% 
accuracy, including 
tracking of time spent per 
ticket. 
Ref: 5.2.3.1 
Monthly Progress 
Report 
 
  
61 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
7.2  OTHER ATTACHMENTS 
 
 
Attachment 2 
 
RESERVED 
 
 
Attachment 3, Cybersecurity Regulations and Guidance (Paragraph 6.7.2.3) 
 
Attachment 
3-Cybersecurity Regu    
  
 
 
Attachment 4, FRCS Responsibility Matrix (Paragraph 6.7.5.3) 
 
Attachment 4-FRCS 
Responsibility Matrix.p 
  
 
 
Attachment 5, Risk Assessment Timeframes (Paragraph 6.7.7) 
 
Attachment 5-Risk 
Assessment Timefram  
 
  
62 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
PART 7, ATTACHMENT 6 
ESTIMATED WORKLOAD DATA AND CURRENT SITE INFORMATION 
 
Contractors are expected to deliver comprehensive network support and solutions tailored to meet the 
demands of the current environment.  Note:  The information provided below is accurate as of 2024, 
however it is subject to change in response to the network demands of the ecosystem.    
• Current sites with on-site contract network support – 102 locations 
• Current total sites – 137 MTFs, over 500 Geographically Separated Units (GSUs), and related 
activities 
• Current user population – approximately 179,000 
• Current LAN vendors – Brocade, Juniper, and Cisco 
• Current network monitoring software – SolarWinds NPM 
• Current ITSM software – ServiceNow 
• Current logging software – Splunk 
• Current comply-to-connect- Cisco ISE 
 
 
 
PART 7, ATTACHMENT 7 
LIST OF SITES AND ASSOCIATED SUPPORT DETAILS  
 
 
DHA Site List 
2024.xlsx  
 
 
PART 7, TECHNICAL EXHIBIT 1 
DELIVERABLES SCHEDULE 
 
 
Deliverable Frequency Medium/Format Submit To Applicable to: 
CDRL A001 – 
Quality Control Plan 
 
Within 30 days of 
award 
Contractors 
discretion 
KO All, See PWS 
1.10.1  
CDRL A002 -  
Transition-in, 
Transition-out 
CDRLs if a 
Government 
requirement for this 
contract. 
Transition-in: 
Within 30 days of 
award 
Transition-out:  6 
months prior to 
close of contract 
or unexercised 
option. 
Contractors 
discretion 
COR, Alt COR, 
COR’s PM 
1.6.1.1 and 1.6.1.2. 
63 
Network Engineers and Specialist Support PWS  V1.0  
July 09, 2025 
Deliverable Frequency Medium/Format Submit To Applicable to: 
CDRL A003 -Non-
Disclosure 
Agreement  
Signed statements 
are due, from 
each employee 
assigned, prior to 
performing ANY 
work on this task.  
Contractors 
discretion  
COR, Alt COR, 
COR’s PM 
1.14.2 
CDRL A004-
Weekly Vacancy 
Report  
Weekly – specific 
day, as defined by 
COR  
Contractors 
discretion  
COR, Alt COR, 
COR’s PM  
1.14.5   
CDRL A005 - 
Monthly Progress 
Report  
With Invoice  Same as above  Same as above  1.14.6   
CDRL A006 -  
Contractor 
Manpower 
Reporting  
NLT 31 October 
of each Fiscal 
Year  
Same as above  Same as above  1.14.1 
CDRL A007 
Program 
Management Plan  
Extended from 
previous order 
Updated as 
required  
Same as above  Same as above  5.1  
CDRL A008 - 
Contingency 
Operations Plan  
Updated quarterly  Same as above  Same as above  1.10.3   
CDRL A009 - 
Overseas Housing 
Allowance 
Reimbursement 
Validation/Revalida
tion Report  
Quarterly  Same as above  Same as above  1.9  
CDRL A010 – 
Monthly Inventory 
of equipment  
With Invoice  Contractors 
discretion 
COR, Alt COR, 
COR’s PM, and 
CO via the PIEE 
System  
5.2.2.1  
 
